Iam called groundskeeper, though I hardly enter the grounds anymore. Glashaus is all I have left.



If you were to see the estate for the first time, dazzling like a glass-eyed beetle, poisonous in the sun, ringed with blind alley mazes and jungle spooks, you would not be surprised to hear that it frequently drove visitors to rash and wild acts. There were velvet ropes and warnings everywhere. Guests wore wristbands with tracking chips, and armed guards prowled the hedgerows.



That’s when the estate was the country’s third most popular tourist attraction. We ran six guided tours per day, one at midnight. On Día de Muertos we presided over a squirming, sugary sleepover where children ran up and down dead-end staircases and huddled in blankets in the dimmest corner of the cold tiled shower, beneath the thirteenth faucet. The doors had to be double-locked, even the one that opened onto a brick wall. The floor-mounted skylights were barred, and absolutely no one was allowed into the turret with the suicide doors.



We simply could not trust the guests. That was the cardinal rule. Even so, nearly every day we would find a toddler locked in a transparent closet or wedged behind a trick mirror — the mother would swear it was only to stop the baby’s crying. A lover might say to her companion, “I’m scared, don’t leave me,” and find herself speaking to his image in the silver, hands outstretched and unfeeling. (Inevitably, she’d beat the pane until it shattered.) One father instructed his budding Rubenstein to try the glass harmonica, despite a sign that read “I’m an Antique: Do Not Play Me.” When the boy made an inevitable misfingering, his father shoved him into the spindly keys. The contraption shattered; the boy was stuck with thousands of tiny slivers. And siblings always dared each other to crawl into one of the dozens of four-poster beds, trying to guess if this was where the widow, Grandmother, had finally expired. Then one would press a goose down pillow over the other’s face.



Still, our vigilance managed to prevent any deaths, timely or no. Life was more precious before the war, before the bombs and forest fires, before the famine and the drought and the floods and the poisonous bees and internment camps and fracking and the kidnap and beheading of the president’s daughter. Before the state was declared a no-fly zone and tourism expressly forbidden.



The lawyers and accountants assured us that Grandmother’s holdings were enough to weather crisis, but as one tragedy bled past another and ticket sales tapered to nil, the staff cuts began. Smiling guides were first to go. Then ticket takers, landscapers, and all but one housekeeper, Celia. (The guards, having lifetime contracts, we kept.) Then father died, and our home — the widow’s house — finally became the miserly oasis she had designed. Endless mirrors allow me to keep my own company, no matter where in the house I roam.



Grandmother had impeccable taste. Each of the thousand teak doors is fitted with knobs of crystal and brass, and all the plumbing is copper. Her fine china sits prettily in breakfronts shipped from France. Oil paintings fluoresce in the gallery like sexless jellyfish. In her bedrooms, boxes and boxes of diamond tiaras. Glashaus itself is a jewel in a war zone, prey to circling, hungry gangs.



The guards take their jobs quite dead into their savage hearts. I haven’t seen one in months, not since they stopped coming to the kitchen for meals. They don’t sleep in the barracks, either. They communicate with signs and calls. That is the least frightening explanation I have for the sounds I hear at night, dark rustles of purpose. I suppose I am grateful if they choose to remain close by at all.



The buyers are due tomorrow at noon, bringing me freedom by helicopter. I get drunk on the last of my father’s rum, stoned on the buds of the little plant I keep warm with spotlights in the fifth pantry. I undress in front of the spirit mirror, daring Grandmother to look. I pilfer her green crepe dress from the south second floor display case and button it down my back. I seat her foxtail hat in my curls and pull her gloves over my small square hands. Then I strip it all off again, thrilling to the drafts along my contours. How long has it been since I felt young?



Grandmother loved a seance, but I find they raise more questions. No seer warned me mother would abscond with an honored guest to start fresh in the Old World. I have the Christmas photograph she sent ten years ago, her family so alike in hope and hair-parting. Grandmother insisted she could see to the world’s end. Surely her vision could not have failed to anticipate me, the last ghost loose in her kingdom.



My right wheel had been sticking. Rather than ever turn that way and worsen the wear, I had taken to spinning three-quarters left. It was only in a circumstance like the chopper, where I sat bound by netting so as not to roll when the pilot lurched in fickle airstreams that whistled over the volcano’s mouth, that I got to painfully consider the imperfect ways I moved my body — and my stupid amendments when they failed. While there was no wide opening to dread (we had spent extravagantly on an enclosed, non-military aircraft), I continued to nurse a premonition of banking from a flock of birds, coming fast unmoored, and tumbling out toward the steamy crater.



Roal was puffing cheap Panamanian cigarettes, the same brand he’d suffered prior to his wealth, as money could rarely purchase taste and even less often made the attempt. Some of the fumes were siphoned through a window panel, but a good deal swirled into my face, about which I might have complained were it not a scent that reminded me of father. Elise, Roal’s wife and my elder, surviving sister, was not so transported by nostalgia and kept telling Roal that he was disgusting. He was, though I can’t say I blame the cigarettes: he had a disgusting soul. I assumed this was what she meant, anyway, and mutely agreed.



“When last she erupted?” asked Roal.



“Eighteen-fiftyish,” drawled the pilot when totally sure he’d been addressed. Roal’s bodyguard, whose gender I had never ascertained, shook his or her head and fingered his or her slight dark mustache, unimpressed by the recent lack of seismic activity. Elise looked as if she were trying to picture the nameless town still buried in ash. Roal himself seemed soothed by misleading proof of dormancy. The rebels were, if not routed, then scattered insectlike to jungle in diseased disarray, and nothing would obstruct his conquest of the central oil reserves — nothing, that is, but the alien moods of earth itself, keeper of the fossil cache.



We reached the opposite slope, and a blinding green valley yawned open. “I’ll be glad for a drink,” I said. I owed my sister money, which is to say I owed Roal money — thus my consulting, pro bono, on the matter of this villa he spoke of as his irreducible future. An oil baron owning the house of tragic builders of oil equipment, that being the loophole of the prior, naïve economy. As I made my unheard comment I worried that the new regime, for one reason or none whatsoever, might be dry of alcohol — or that our hostess just wouldn’t have any. Through customs I had secreted three minuscule bottles of absinthe, not nearly enough.



“The granddaughter, isn’t it,” said Elise. She didn’t speak louder than I had, but somehow her voice always carried. It was nothing so much acoustic as moral.



“Who?” I shouted. I was having the sort of episode where my calves feel enormously itchy, though I cannot properly feel that, and I scratch them anyway — but in this case I couldn’t move my arms to do so. Roal’s bodyguard stared at my dead knees like she (or he) was actively declining to help.



“Seller. Granddaughter. Crazy widow.”



An editorial aspect of noise: people do not waste words in it.



“The widow went crazy,” I said. “I don’t know a granddaughter.”



“‘Crazy’ is not an acceptable term,” Roal’s bodyguard informed us.



“Crazy enough to sell for a song,” said Roal. “Who cares who she is? She picked up the phone when my man called. She’s got papers.”



“You’ve got papers,” Elise replied. “And what are they worth.”



Conversation dropped off there. A single-lane dirt road was chiseled into the mountain range we flew alongside, and at its most treacherous turns I could see stick figures waving green and red flags. Human stoplights, standing on the edge of oblivion. The forest became more fragmented until it was set in square islands among the pale shrubland. Bursting blue or yellow shards — rabbles of butterflies — flitted over the beaten ground. Then came the swimming pools, which even placed far from the trees had an emerald green appearance, flat and sparkling fatally. The inner town was a densely packed hive, cruel slope of stucco and clay, and on the plateau above rose a compound so ugly it had to be where we were heading, what Roal would buy despite what I told him, the place that finally ruined us all.



I neglected to ever mention the cat, and now it’s too late to call and warn them. My head pounds. I see the helicopter buzzing over the glossy treetops like a junkyard fly. The cat naturally sees it too. Flexes his large black paws from the roof beam where he’s been lying all day, awakened more by sun than noise.



And I am still naked. Something so wonderful about being naked, all alone in the house. The cat slinks down, claws clacking on the boards … he and I race up and down staircases, crouch, pounce, scratch at the window frames. It is a house with many eyes, egresses. You may be seen from each and every angle, your image shaped as wholly as your body. And here the watchers are the sort you may trust.



On the fifth floor’s observatory we stop, watching from the jagged lip of the shot-out rose window as rotary blades muss canopy. The cat says, “I suppose they’ll be wanting papers.”



“Nine cabinets full in the legal study. Surely one of those will do. Don’t think they’d have trouble inventing documents regardless. Celia said an Internet company bought the pyramid. Silly me, didn’t know pyramids could be bought. Going to launch great balloons to transmit the service across the whole river basin. How nice!”



“The elders will be pleased to acquire the power of email.”



I can never tell when he’s being sarcastic. Luis is accustomed to greeting guests, but I ask him to hold off. The muscles in his back tense as the chopper drops and hovers above a patch of once-neat beds of rosemary and witch hazel, now a fragrant, warding bramble. The door swings open. I’m pleased with my hostessing once I see the woman trundle down the rope ladder, enormously pregnant, then the lowering of a man with his cast legs extended on an odd wheeled chair. Utter cat meat. A security goon in camouflage follows. I imagine my guards behind the hedge, snickering at this amateur. His visible weapon a small sidearm, maybe a knife in his unwashed sock. He probably hasn’t thought to mask his scent with musk and berries.



The billionaire descends in a billow of dust. He throws sharp gestures to the pilot, who arcs the aircraft up and away to some foreign port. Our helipad, historically trafficked by rich children and foreign dignitaries, is outside the patrol perimeter. Any million-dollar toy left to idle on its mossy surface would be subject to dismantling and desecration. Luis says the gangs have a child who smells the faintest trace of gasoline ten miles away. Below the flight path, trees are jostling.



I wait for my visitors to notice me there in the window. The four of them confer on the front lawn for what feels like hours. The billionaire shouts instructions and sends the bodyguard to try the nearest door. I can tell he’s a thorny sort of man, puffed up like a wasp’s nest. I wave permission to the cat, and he bounds off to bring them to the real entrance — they’d never find it on their own. I pull on a pair of silk trousers and fold myself into a fur-trimmed robe, step into sandals of soft bark that allow me to sneak around corners without being heard.



A scream: the cat’s reached them. Why are people always afraid? Luis does his best to be courteous, has even worked out a sort of bow. With the prim white collar he’d pass for a butler, albeit halfway through a sudden metamorphosis. Imagination does not suit the civilized, is my understanding. What does it matter if my serving man’s a panther? In hardscrabble times we mustn’t be choosy.



I peek out the hidden windows in the back of my closet, telescope boring into my eye socket. The woman looks sweaty in a wealthy way, or maybe she’d prefer “dew-dappled,” adjectives from a skin cream commercial. She’s wearing a confusing knit item that wraps around and under her arms and stretches tight over her belly, which she rubs occasionally, comforting herself rather than the tadpole inside. At the cat’s request, the bodyguard turns the handle of the unobtrusive frosted-glass door tucked beneath a side awning, and they file cautiously into the lobby, making noises of wonder at the bloom of marble and chandeliers, dusty as they are.



The man with the broken leg has trouble navigating entry, and Luis bows his head against the seat-back to push him in. I mark the man’s beard — four days’ growth, perhaps — his pallor and obvious need of food. I call the kitchen and ask Celia to whip up strawberry and tuna finger sandwiches, whatever it is that civilized humans eat. I try not to think about how to greet them; mother always said you shouldn’t come off too practiced. I can hear them milling about in the receiving hall, touching things I’d rather they didn’t. I pose myself in a manner I hope to be casual at the top of the stairs, flounce my robe, and proclaim: “Welcome to my home!”



The sandwiches were strange, but I ate almost all of them, famished. Our hostess idly tossed a few to her velvet jungle cat, who snatched them politely from midair and swallowed with an overmuscled throat, licking his elegant whiskers each time. That he talked did not bewilder me so much as his accentless mode of speech; it was as if he had carved the shapes of human sound from a single, guttural purr that refused to deviate from its nearly subsonic monotone. I wondered how many languages it had, and whether it might be convinced to murder Roal in exchange for a year of Balik salmon, flown from Europe at each mealtime.



This was, no doubt, the reason our hostess kept such a pet: it neatly distracted from herself. She was lanky and cool but not ethereal in the way of a hermit caretaker for a palace given to mildew and evil rot. She wore a gray eyepatch that enhanced a strikingly lovely nose and mouth, and this hue matched her short wavy hair, which had to have been dyed, for she was yet appallingly young. Since my skiing “accident” in the Alps with Roal I’d naturally felt helpless, though never as much as when she trained her sighted pupil on my sad and broken form.



She pretended amazement at Elise’s distended gut — I don’t care what people say, pregnancy is a horror of the possible — and her hints at womanly envy rang false. I pitied them this bad ritual. From her face of judgment I decided once and for all that Roal’s bodyguard was female as well. Roal took the opportunity to call a corporate associate, then one of his sickly mistresses, both always in need of verbal comfort, and after concluding this business was in the mood for nothing but.



“A tour, then, Miss Valle?” he broke in. “Just a sense of what we’re standing on.”



“An eroding cliff,” our hostess said. “It should last a little.”



“Are you afraid at all, so close to the volcano?” Elise had to ask. Miss Valle appeared puzzled by the question. “I really haven’t lived anywhere else,” she said. “I suppose I’m afraid to leave its shadow. As for the tour … will your friend be able to manage? There are many steps, and hardly any useful ramps.”



“He’s got to manage,” Roal sneered. “He’s an architect, and I’m paying him for his professional opinion.” Paying was horned with invisible quotes.



“In my professional opinion,” I said, “this place could burn and I’d be happy.” The cat laughed bestially at this comment.



“I’m of a similar view,” he growled, somewhat to Miss Valle’s annoyance. “What’s more, it would make a pretty sight.”



“It better not,” Roal said. “Let’s get on, then.”



Though I badly needed to crush and snort my yellow pills — I was in the sorry position of being prescribed a drug to which I was already addicted — I resisted the urge to ask after a washroom, assuming the nearest lay just beyond a concrete maze or sequence of increasingly cramped dumbwaiters. Who knew if there was one at all? Perhaps Miss Valle and her catservant shared a giant litter box.



The craving for drugs roughly tripled as Luis nudged me into an adjoining room with the others, a steamed solarium whose glass-pane ceiling allowed a murky light to fall on an assortment of withered vines and succulents. It wasn’t the oozing climate that bothered me, but movement behind a far-away stand of bamboo, the sort of movement that retextures an entire surface. The greenhouse was full of chameleons that swarmed among every stinking plant.



Taken aback by the polychromy, I elected to tip my wheelchair over and feign an injury to my hand, which I jammed into the spokes for effect. Roal laughed, as I’d predicted, but when Elise and Miss Valle bent to help, he prickled at the delay. The more he was inconvenienced by my shattered tibiae, the more furious he became with himself for relying on brute forms of control. One of my rare pleasures, in those days, to see him waver between jovial malice and a dim understanding of what it routinely cost him. Sometimes you could almost see him learning.



“Please, go on without me,” I moaned. “So much ground to cover.” My hand had actually cut itself, pretense notwithstanding, which meant blood enough to make Elise flee and Roal dismiss me as a cretinous abomination. He did occasionally claim, but only when drinking fine and pretentious tequilas, that when cut he did not bleed. I always said he’d be better off as leader of a suicide cult.



“Let me take you to the baths,” Miss Valle said, the brow above her eyepatch creased in worry. “You’ll soak your hand — it’s therapeutic.” Roal tapped the bulletproof casing of his dive watch. I was sure he couldn’t swim.



“Luis will guide you a moment,” Miss Valle demurred, “through the great dining room and the candlepin bowling alley, just to the second-floor smoking lounge. He knows this house even better than I,” she added by way of apology, which made the cat’s tail twitch ropily. My companions and the creature pressed on, leaving me alone with Miss Valle, who instead of righting me stuck a pistol in my mouth.



“Hanrgh?” I inquired.



“What you said about burning this house,” she said, “I take to be a joke. But it is not the sort of joke I entertain.”



“Hongeh,” I said. “Horry.”



The cat yowls — something is wrong. I leave him alone for two minutes … I try not to think about what happened to the previous buyers, undersecretaries with matching haircuts, impertinent, nosy, the cat on his hind legs, bashing their heads together like marbles. The bear guard materializing at the scent of blood to bundle them into a tarp and carry them away on his back.



We’ll have to come round from behind. I can cast the choke chain when he’s fixed on his own target, giving me time to triangulate my aim. Geometry is a subject with sinister meaning in my family. The cripple takes ages to maneuver into the hand-crank elevator. He spatters blood on the blown-glass ivy grating. His wheels leave an ugly rubber streak on the silver jamb.



“Hurry up,” I hiss. He looks at me suspiciously, wondering why I never mentioned the elevator, and whence I produced the fine, toothed chain (I wear it around my upper thigh, clothed or no). The complaints of the ancient mechanism fill the car, which stalls almost imperceptibly the higher it lifts us.



“I’m bleeding rather a lot. Would you mind — ?”



He makes puppy eyes and motions to my robe. My lovely silk robe with its print of birds of paradise, feathers like bright explosions. Not mine any longer, I think, and tear a strip from the bottom. Wincing, he wraps his hand expertly, as though he has had many occasions to patch himself back together. I want to ask about his leg but know it has to do with the billionaire: acid glances and victim’s sulk. And I can’t afford to spook the bird of compromise that roosts in my heart, at least for now.



He produces a handful of yellow pills and crushes them against the armrest with the heel of his good hand. Leans in close and huffs into his left nostril.



“I can’t stand elevators, can you?”



“Where did you get those?”



“Where did you get that?” he asks, clapping his wrapped hand over his eye in a parody of my patch. His body relaxes. Color rushes to his cheeks. Those pills, not sandwiches, are his particular ambrosia.



“Grandmother gave it to me. Willed it, when she died. We were kindred spirits. She believed that with magic and sacrifice I could learn to see the ghosts, as she did. The great disappointment was that I fainted from blood loss before I’d scooped out the entire eye. Anything worthwhile you must do yourself, is what she told me. I remember my mother finding me and screaming like a jaguar. I thought she and Grandmother would kill each other for sure, but the guards pulled them apart.”



“Holy mother.”



“Something like that.”



Afterward, my mother dove to safety through the loop of a new wedding band. The ghosts, Grandmother insisted, would be there whether I saw them or not. The question was whether I wanted to. I didn’t, still don’t.



The world is full enough.



We arrive on the fourth floor, where nothing whatsoever breathes. The cripple refuses to let me push him. Possessed by a pharmaceutical boldness, he spins his way into the corridor. Perhaps he is hoping to impress me. The kind of man who thinks adoration for a woman is performance, a dance that twirls him ever closer to death or obliteration. The first I’ve seen it danced for me.



Fearful but curious, I bestow the wryest of smiles, perhaps inappropriate given that Luis may be in distress. There is something wrong with the carpet ahead. A hump in the plush red weave where there shouldn’t be, about three feet high. The lump stands, shakes itself and bounds towards us. His midnight coat is so thickly coated with blood and glass that he looks near-skinned. But Luis is doubtless most upset at the ruination of his starched collar.



“What happened?”



“Gangs shattered the gallery wall. Twenty or thirty, bone pikes and kerosene. I led the guests to the lounge and posted up at the door. The rich one ordered the thick one to charge. I told them the guards would come, but the rich one called me a fool pussy and shot out the eave window. He said those fuckwits can have his house over his cold dead body. You can see what came of it.”



“Are they all dead, then?”



“Only the thick one. Maybe one or two guards injured, and twelve of the enemy felled by my count. Others are inside.”



The cripple still stares as though the cat’s articulacy is the most extraordinary thing, no care for the woman (or unborn child) or hope in the death of his tormentor. The faint sound of gunfire — how had I not heard it before? — and shattering glass, ground to sand with the force of the bullets. I trust the guards are doing their jobs. It is only for us to stay well clear. I’m not sure they distinguish one enemy from another. I hear the roar of the bear guard, the yip of the fox, the snarl of the jaguar; they’ll handle this. Their hiring was my father’s last accomplishment before he died. His way of keeping my mother from changing her mind. I remember going with him on small planes to recruit mercenaries whose lives were narcocorridos. Monstrous of appetite, and their eyes always darted. My father could offer them a steady diet.



From the opulent but dusty lounge, its bookshelves arranged by rarely spoken language — or rather, from said lounge’s store of nameless liquor, kept in a hollow outdated globe that hinged open mouth-wise at the equator — I pinched a pretty bottle of brown stuff, hoping to the devil that it wasn’t cognac.



The animals had to bristle at this, Luis warning me with the slightest curl of lip and fang, but they hurried us on toward stranger rooms. Miss Valle rolled me swiftly, ahead of steadily cursing Roal and huffing huge Elise, through a dim narrow chamber whose walls poured down into carved wooden chairs. The site of some infant sacrifice, most like. Next came a circular space whose polished stone floor was pocked with fist-sized holes for an eccentric sport that had clearly never caught on. We broke upon a glaring roof of silver tar and made for another greenhouse at its center. It was within this humid cage, suffocatingly meshed by tropical vines and flowering moss, that Elise begged to briefly rest.



“Yes,” agreed Roal, calculating the precious man-hours involved in vetting, hiring, and brainwashing a new bodyguard into total obedience. “Yes, let’s all stop and get killed right here by the rebels. A perfectly lovely spot to be butchered.”



“He’s not entirely wrong,” said our hostess with uncommon grace.



“Better yet!” shouted Roal, unholstering his own ridiculous gold-plated sidearm. A gift from the Saudi petro-monarch he sadly imagined to be his mentor. He’d only ever fired it at seagulls that dared to land on the railings of his yacht during brunch with fellow sociopaths. “We’ll climb up the trees and wait, let’s get the drop on them!”



“Roal,” Elise panted, leaning on the patient bear. “You’re embarrassing me.”



“You don’t need help with that,” said he. In the pit of chaos their arguments still sounded rehearsed, and my scoff proved as unavoidable as it was inadvisable. But Roal was busy overacting. “And the master cannot embarrass his mistress!” he exclaimed. “She is just the vessel — she is born to submit!” White froth was flung out by his words. “She, she,” he stammered, looking dazedly at her belly like it was a teleprompter that might provide the final and winning point in his eternal campaign of domestic abuse. The spiky shade of the plants played weirdly on his skin, and then it seemed that these weren’t shadows but the rupturing of tendons and veins.



Then he didn’t have a face. Or it no longer scanned as such. The women and beasts and I watched frozenly as he seemed to shrink, drained of what gave him shape. I recalled a film Elise and I had admired as children, the desiccation of a burly priest by the vampires he was sworn to battle. Indeed, Roal was drying up. When his gnarling legs failed and he toppled, there could be no doubt he was dead.



I buried a little cry of jubilation by taking a long, stinging slug of what turned out to be, of course, cognac, though far from the worst I’ve had. Elise lurched away to vomit. Luis padded up to the corpse and sniffed.



“Poisoned,” said the servant cat. “Utriothyne.”



“How would you know?” I muttered, and raised the bottle again, slopping booze down my chin. “But cheers all the same, you handsome furball.”



“It’s made from a carnivorous plant, the utriofeti, that only grows in this part of the world,” said Luis. “They contain toxic enzymes that can digest a lizard. We cultivate them at the south end of this greenhouse.”



“Then I suppose I’ve got you to thank,” I said to Miss Valle, who had not budged since Roal’s grandiloquent exit. She seized the bottle from me and, plugging the neck with a thumb, swung the base into my sternum so that I wheezed with agony. Luis and the jaguar chuckled. “Idiot,” Miss Valle hissed. “Can you not stop flirting for one second and put together what’s happened here? We haven’t nearly enough utriofeti here to synthesize the poison. Whoever did this must have acres.”



“The rebels, then,” I croaked, waiting for my solar plexus to reassemble. In the corner of my vision, on a crumbling log, sat the grayish ministerial fox, slightest of Miss Valle’s menagerie, and it struck me as ill but guarding the secret like stoic dogs do, swaying just a bit. Had it caught a dose of Roal’s local toxin? Had Elise, whose retching had ceased? The fox answered my initial query by hacking up a mouthful hairy human flesh, instantly recovering his poise.



“Ah,” said Luis. “Adolfo has expunged a tattoo.”



Miss Valle picked up the hank of skin and peered closely. “A three-headed snake,” she sighed. Her courtiers nodded grave assent; Adolfo appeared quite proud of himself, fluffing his chest with his front right paw.



“Suppose you let an outsider know what that means,” I implored, meanwhile trying to wheel myself toward the shrubbery Elise had disappeared into. Although worried for her wellbeing, I had also started to worry about the question of transport home, or to a half-civilized city on the famously cosmopolitan coast, at worst. Who was going to call that ghastly helicopter back?



“Our attackers aren’t rebels,” Miss Valle said, adjusting her eyepatch and deftly scratching beneath. Tired of always bringing me up to speed, and I didn’t exactly blame her. I wanted to kiss her for putting up with me at all, which is how I feel about any woman who does. “They’re with the cabal that has just come to power.”



“That makes no sense! Those people wanted Roal here.”



“Yes, I suppose they did,” she conceded.



“Always better deals,” purred Luis.



“Where the hell can she have got to?” the cripple is panting. He fails to duck quickly, and a frond of something slaps his face. “And why do you have so many goddamn greenhouses?”



“Grandmother trusted plants. They don’t have ghosts.”



I am not so devastated that Roal is no longer in any position to buy my home. If his widow finds it in her heart to make herself scarce as well, so very much the better. I could hold out another year or two, provided I live on scraps. I could send Celia to live with her sister in Mexico City. Long before this stage of decay, the guards were finding their own food and drink.



The cripple is calling his sister’s name. Earlier I had not noticed her influence, but now, abandoned, it is clear he is childlike without her, and in her presence plays the cynic for her amusement. When we still properly entertained I studied the siblings most, saw the way they captured or denied their parents’ attention, the cruel tricks they played to declare their fierce and tribal love.



“May I ask how your sister came to be married to such a man?”



“S&M contract, I presume. I was in Europe during their courtship and marriage, pursuing my own fetish. Lille was her name. When I came back my family was suddenly part of a dynasty, and an inbred one at that. Since we were little, Elise has wanted everything all at once. There was a creek we swam in, fast and cold. I’d be dipping my feet in the shallows and she’d cannonball. Then she’d pretend to have drowned in the current, and I’d leap in to save her. But she was never drowned, and she’d pull me under for a laugh. I always got water up my nose. I hated that.”



We push through the creeper thicket and dislodge a brace of chameleons, a different species than in the other greenhouse. Both populations began from two mated pairs and over the years have developed their separate eccentricities. The roofers are light-skinned to reflect the sun, and breathe openmouthed, while the downstairs lizards invent new patterns and colors and swing upside-down from branches, active and grippy. I do not believe a roofer would be able to breed with his sheltered relative, though they are only something like third cousins thrice removed.



The woman’s voice, knifing through the vines:



“The smell of cut plants is their way of screaming. They emit a stress chemical. Two tons of cut stems are boiled for many hours in industrial drums, then spun and clarified. Produces one ounce of utriothyne. Burns tissue more powerfully than 700 rem of nuclear exposure. Per dose, six hundred thousand dollars. The producers won’t accept pesos. It must be handled with care.”



“Elise?” The cripple starts, snagging his wheel in a clump of Palla palm. I free him and catch him looking at me as though he wants to declare his love. I don’t know how I know this; perhaps I detect a softening of lips or liquidity of the eyes, involuntary twitches in hands that wish to hold. I find myself amazed at how fluently I can read this human’s face and fears with my single eye.



Together we push through the foliage. The woman we find standing beneath a spidering clump of hothouse orchids is wearing Elise’s clothes, but in some fundamental way she is not Elise. She is not ill, or widowed, or pregnant. She dangles a padded suit with fat cotton breasts by its tan elastic strap. There is a plastic tube, needle-tipped, protruding from the bellybutton. Head cocked and eyes full of deadly calm, she looks just like my mother. A woman thinking her private thoughts. Behind her, the paramilitary squad, guns ready. At our backs, my guards take a fighting crouch. Luis tenses and growls. On my command, he does not charge.



“I let Roal entertain fantasies,” says Elise. “He was a lousy pilot. I hoped he might crash, but through dumb luck he managed to stay aloft. Skiing, squash, and big game hunting. Car collections, women. Criminal alliances. The baby, another. They kept him occupied while I pursued my own interest — with his money, of course. A good system till he decided my brother was spoiling his fun. He was right: you always were a wet blanket. And there you were, Miss Valle, flitting about your house of mirrors.” She pauses. “Do you want to know what happens next?”



“Elise, for fuck’s sake,” the brother says, “why couldn’t you hire a hitman like everyone ordinary? Why’d you have to drag us — her! — into it? That belly is really a bridge too far. Kind of thing drives a man to drugs.”



She rolls her eyes. “You love drugs. Nobody’s fooled,” she says. “New government needed oil for tanks, I simply sweetened the contract. I’d’ve preferred assassins with a touch more finesse, but they’re just getting their feet wet. And I usually have a Plan B.” She gestured to the tube. “Can you believe it worked?”



“Elise,” he says, with everything else implied.



“You know I get my way. He was in it.”



I step forward to a cocking of rifles. “What about my house?” I demand. Elise regards me with something that approximates pity.



“Utriothyne is a highly controlled substance,” she says. “The UN will practically declare war on any government or individual in possession.”



“I don’t see what that has to do with me.”



“You don’t? Well, what about now?”



She grins and launches the pregnancy suit with its bellyful of poison up through an open glass panel in the ceiling. The syringe catches on the frame and begins to leak slow, deliberate drops on my lianas, which quickly shrivel to ash. We watch an unfortunate chameleon walk under the stream. It, too, desiccates in a matter of seconds. The breeze wafts its papery body away.



“Miss Valle, you must choose. Either sell me your home and let me demolish it, along with my crime, or go on living your feral days until a richer nation floods your forest with napalm and hunts you down like the fox you are.”



Adolfo gives a yap of disapproval. I can feel Luis’s subsonic rumble. But in the midst of this I feel no apprehension. Elise motions to the soldiers, who bring out a large black valise and begin putting their devilish machinery together. I know it is a bomb as surely as I believe it will not work.



This house, Grandmother once told me, is protected. It is protected because I built it. I brought it into being so that we’d have a place to act out our stories. Many have died for it — and many more have lived. But it is always its own place. It contains rooms and passageways that not even I have seen. The house remains.



The cripple is developing a permanent anxiety between his eyebrows. I think of smoothing it with my thumb. The air in the greenhouse is close and burns the inside of our nostrils. Pinpoints of sun dance on our skins.



“How much?”



“Eight million in cash, right now.”



At her snap, another lackey scurries up and presents me with a small silver case. I squat and unlatch it, gaze at the thick blue stacks. Enough to build. Past and present overlap until indistinguishable, layers of the same transparency. I feel the cripple’s hand on my back and Luis’ breath in my ear. It should be enough for us, I think, surprised at the pronoun. Surprised at my continuing surprise.



I see us lifting in the chopper. Elise has stayed to supervise. Celia was given time to pack. The three of us wear earmuffs and stare straight ahead.



“Why did you let her?” yells the man. Luis wrinkles up his handsome nose. He considers the query all too rude, is glad he didn’t have to ask it.



“What choice did I have?”



“A trap door? Bladed pendulum? Army of indentured termites? Christ, Miss Valle, I’m an addict but I’m not dense. I did the research, I know the house.”



“The house did not know you,” says Luis.



“Cat,” I say. “Enough.”



A pulse in the sky, traces of the blast. The jungle writhes and bends below. I imagine the bear guard running. The fox burrows in to watch through slitted eyes. The jaguar leaps from branch to branch and nearly loses her balance. Smashed to slivers, the house would embed itself in the fur and dirt and bark of everything within fifty miles. The air would shimmer with showers of light, like ice.



Or does the glass remain, while the spirits inside are shattered



