[METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE]The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Night Land, by William Hope HodgsonThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Night LandAuthor: William Hope HodgsonRelease Date: January 9, 2004 [EBook #10662]Language: English*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NIGHT LAND ***Produced by Suzanne Shell, Maria Khomenko and PG Distributed ProofreadersTHE NIGHT LANDWILLIAM HOPE HODGSON1912THE DREAMS THAT ARE ONLY DREAMS"This to be Love, that your spirit to live in a natural holiness withthe Beloved, and your bodies to be a sweet and natural delight thatshall be never lost of a lovely mystery.... And shame to be unborn, and
[PERSPECTIVE][CHARACTER][CONTEXT]all things to go wholesome and proper, out of an utter greatness ofunderstanding; and the Man to be an Hero and a Child before the Woman;and the Woman to be an Holy Light of the Spirit and an Utter Companionand in the same time a glad Possession unto the Man.... And this doth be
[EMOTION][CHARACTER]Human Love...."
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][DIALOGUE]"...for this to be the especial glory of Love, that it doth make untoall Sweetness and Greatness, and doth be a fire burning all Littleness;so that did all in this world to have met The Beloved, then didWantonness be dead, and there to grow Gladness and Charity, dancing inthe years."IMIRDATH THE BEAUTIFUL    [DIALOGUE]"And I cannot touch her face    And I cannot touch her hair,    And I kneel to empty shadows--    Just memories of her grace;    And her voice sings in the winds    And in the sobs of dawn    And among the flowers at night    And from the brooks at sunrise    And from the sea at sunset,    And I answer with vain callings ..."It was the Joy of the Sunset that brought us to speech. I was gone along way from my house, walking lonely-wise, and stopping often that Iview the piling upward of the Battlements of Evening, and to feel thedear and strange gathering of the Dusk come over all the world about me.The last time that I paused, I was truly lost in a solemn joy of theGlory of the Coming Night; and maybe I laughed a little in my throat,standing there alone in the midst of the Dusk upon the World. And, lo!
my content was answered out of the trees that bounded the country roadupon my right; and it was so as that some one had said: [DIALOGUE]"And thou also!"in glad understanding, that I laughed again a little in my throat; asthough I had only a half-believing that any true human did answer mylaugh; but rather some sweet Delusion or Spirit that was tuned to mymood.But she spoke and called me by my name; and when I had gone to the sideof the road, that I should see her somewhat, and discover whether I knewher, I saw that she was surely that lady, who for her beauty was knownthrough all of that sweet County of Kent as Lady Mirdath the Beautiful;and a near neighbour to me; for the Estates of her Guardian aboundedupon mine.Yet, until that time, I had never met her; for I had been so oft andlong abroad; and so much given to my Studies and my Exercises when athome, that I had no further Knowledge of her than Rumour gave to me oddtime; and for the rest, I was well content; for as I have given hint, mybooks held me, and likewise my Exercises; for I was always an athlete,and never met the man so quick or so strong as I did be; save in somefiction of a tale or in the mouth of a boaster.Now, I stood instantly with my hat in my hand; and answered her gentlebantering so well as I might, the while that I peered intent andwondering at her through the gloom; for truly Rumour had told no tale toequal the beauty of this strange maid; who now stood jesting with sosweet a spirit, and claiming kinship of Cousinhood with me, as wastruth, now that I did wake to think.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]And, truly, she made no ado; but named me frank by my lad's name, andgave laughter and right to me to name her Mirdath, and nothing less ormore--at that time. And she bid me then to come up through the hedge,and make use of a gap that was her own especial secret, as sheconfessed, when she took odd leave with her maid to some country frolic,drest as village maids; but not to deceive many, as I dare believe.And I came up through the gap in the hedge and stood beside her; andtall she had seemed to me, when I looked up at her; and tall she was, intruth; but indeed I was a great head taller. And she invited me then towalk with her to the house, that I meet her Guardian and give word to mysorrow that I had so long neglected to make call upon them; and trulyher eyes to shine with mischief and delight, as she named me so for myamissness.
[EMOTION][METAPHOR][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT]But, indeed, she grew sober in a moment, and she set up her finger to meto hush, as that she heard somewhat in the wood that lay all the wayupon our right. And, indeed, something I heard too; for there was surelya rustling of the leaves, and anon a dead twig crackt with a sound clearand sharp in the stillness.And immediately there came three men running out of the wood at me; andI called to them sharply to keep off or beware of harm; and I put themaid to my back with my left hand, and had my oak staff ready for myuse.But the three men gave out no word of reply; but ran in at me; and I sawsomewhat of the gleam of knives; and at that, I moved very glad andbrisk to the attack; and behind me there went shrill and sweet, the callof a silver whistle; for the Maid was whistling for her dogs; and maybethe call was also a signal to the men-servants of her house.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][DANGER][ACTION]Yet, truly, there was no use in help that was yet to come; for the needdid be then and instant; and I nowise loath to use my strength beforemy sweet cousin. And I stepped forward, briskly, as I have told; andthe end of my staff I drove into the body of the left-ward man, so thathe dropped like a dead man. And I hit very sharply at the head ofanother, and surely crackt it for him; for he made instantly upon theearth; but the third man I met with my fist, and neither had he anygreat need of a second blow; but went instant to join his companions,and the fight thus to have ended before it was even proper begun, and Ilaughing a little with a proper pride, to know the bewilderment that Iperceived in the way that the Lady Mirdath, my cousin, stood andregarded me through the dusk of the hushed even.But, indeed, there was no time left to us, before there came boundingup, three great boar-hounds, that had been loosed to her whistle; andshe had some ado to keep the brutes off me; and I then to beat them offthe men upon the earth, lest they maul them as they lay. And directly,
there was a noise of men shouting, and the light of lanthorns in thenight, and the footmen of the house to come running with lanthorns andcudgels; and knew not whether to deal with me, or not, in the firstmoment, even as the dogs; but when they saw the men upon the ground, andlearned my name and saw me proper, they kept well their distance and hadno lack of respect; but, indeed, my sweet cousin to have the most ofany; only that she showed no intent to keep distance of me; but to havea new and deeper feeling of kinship than she at first had shown.And the men-servants asked what should be done with the foot-pads;seeing that they were now recovering. But, indeed, I left the matter,along with some silver, to the servants; and very sound justice theydealt out to the men; for I heard their cries a good while after we hadgone away.Now, when we were come up to the Hall, my cousin must take me in to herGuardian, Sir Alfred Jarles, an old man and venerable that I knew alittle in passing and because our estates abounded. And she praised me
[PERSPECTIVE]to my face, yet quaintly-wise; and the old man, her Guardian thanked memost honourably and with a nice courtesy; so that I was a welcomehouse-friend from that time onward.And I stayed all that evening, and dined, and afterward went out againinto the home-grounds with the Lady Mirdath; and she more friendly to methan ever any woman had been; and seemed to me as that she had known mealways. And, truly, I had the same feeling in my heart towards her; forit was, somehow, as though we knew each the way and turn of the other,and had a constant delight to find this thing and that thing to be incommon; but no surprise; save that so pleasant a truth had so natural adiscovery.And one thing there was that I perceived held the Lady Mirdath all thatdear fore-night; and this was, indeed, the way that I had my pleasure soeasy with the three foot-pads. And she asked me plainly whether I was
not truly very strong; and when I laughed with young and natural pride,she caught my arm suddenly to discover for herself how strong I mightbe. And, surely, she loosed it even the more sudden, and with a littlegasping of astonishment, because it was so great and hard. Andafterward, she walked by me very silent, and seeming thoughtful; but shewent never any great way off from me.And, truly, if the Lady Mirdath had a strange pleasure in my strength, Ihad likewise a constant wonder and marvel in her beauty, that had shownbut the more lovely in the candle-light at dinner.
But there were further delights to me in the days that came; for I hadhappiness in the way that she had pleasure of the Mystery of theEvening, and the Glamour of Night, and the Joy of Dawn, and allsuchlike.And one evening, that I ever remember, as we wandered in the park-lands,she began to say--half unthinking--that it was truly an elves-night. Andshe stopped herself immediately; as though she thought I should have nounderstanding; but, indeed, I was upon mine own familiar ground ofinward delight; and I replied in a quiet and usual voice, that theTowers of Sleep would grow that night, and I felt in my bones that itwas a night to find the Giant's Tomb, or the Tree with the Great PaintedHead, or--And surely I stopped very sudden; for she gripped me in thatmoment, and her hand shook as she held me; but when I would ask her whatailed, she bid me, very breathless, to say on, to say on. And, with ahalf understanding, I told her that I had but meant to speak of the MoonGarden, that was an olden and happy fancy of mine.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION]And, in verity, when I said that, the Lady Mirdath cried out somethingin a strange low voice, and brought me to a halt, that she might faceme. And she questioned me very earnest; and I answered just so earnestas she; for I was grown suddenly to an excitement, in that I perceivedshe knew also. And, in verity, she told me that she had knowledge; buthad thought that she was alone in the world with her knowledge of thatstrange land of her dreams; and now to find that I also had travelled inthose dear, strange dream lands. And truly the marvel of it--the marvelof it! As she to say time and oft. And again, as we walked, she gave out
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM]word that there was little wonder she had been urged to call to me thatnight, as she saw me pause upon the road; though, indeed, she hadlearned of our cousin-ship before, having seen me go by on my horsepretty oft, and inquired concerning me; and mayhap daintily irked that Ihad so little heed of Lady Mirdath the Beautiful. But, indeed, I hadthought of other matters; yet had been human enough, had I but met herproper before I see her.Now you must not think that I was not utter stirred by the wonder ofthis thing, that we had both a dreamful knowledge of the same matters,of which each had thought none other knew. Yet, when I questioned more,there was much that had been in my fancies that was foreign to her, andlikewise much that had been familiar to her, that was of no meaning tome. But though there was this, that brought a little regret to us, there
[SURPRISE][EMOTION]would be, time and again, some new thing that one told, that the otherknew and could finish the telling of, to the gladness and amazement ofboth.And so shall you picture us wandering and having constant speech, sothat, hour by hour, we grew gladly aged in dear knowledge and sweetfriendship of the other.And truly, how the time passed, I know not; but there came presently ahullabaloo, and the shouts of men's voices and the baying of dogs, andthe gleam of lanthorns, so that I knew not what to think; until, verysudden, and with a sweet and strange little laughter, the Lady Mirdathto perceive that we had missed the hours utter in our converse; so thather Guardian (made uneasy because of the three foot-pads) had ordered asearch. And we all that time a-wander together in happy forgetfulness.
[CONFLICT][DANGER][EMOTION]And we turned homeward, then, and came towards the lights; but indeed,the dogs found us before we were come there; and they had grown to knowme now, and leaped about me, barking very friendly; and so in a minutethe men had discovered us, and were gone back to tell Sir Jarles thatall was well.And this was the way of our meeting and the growing of our acquaintance,and the beginning of my great love for Mirdath the Beautiful.Now, from that time onward, evening by evening would I go a-wander alongthe quiet and country road that led from my estate to the estate of SirJarles. And always I went inward by the hedge-gap; and oft I should findthe Lady Mirdath walking in that part of the woods; but always with hergreat boar-hounds about her; for I had begged that she do this thing forher sweet safety; and she to seem wishful to pleasure me; but truly tobe just so oft utter perverse in diverse matters; and to strive toplague me, as though she would discover how much I would endure and howfar she might go to anger me.
[EMOTION][FLASHBACK]And, truly, well I remember how that one night, coming to the hedge-gap,I saw two country-maids come thence out from the woods of Sir Jarles';but they were naught to me, and I would have gone upward through thegap, as ever; only that, as they passed me, they curtseyed somewhatover-graceful for rough wenches. And I had a sudden thought, and came upto them to see them more anigh; and truly I thought the taller wassurely the Lady Mirdath. But, indeed, I could not be sure; for when Iasked who she did be, she only to simper and to curtsey again; and sowas I very natural all in doubt; but yet sufficient in wonder (havingsome knowledge of the Lady Mirdath) to follow the wenches, the which Idid.And they then, very speedy and sedate, as though I were some rack-rapethat they did well to be feared of alone at night; and so came at lastto the village green, where a great dance was a-foot, with torches, anda wandering fiddler to set the tune; and ale in plenty.
And the two to join the dance, and danced very hearty; but had only eachthe other for a partner, and had a good care to avoid the torches. Andby this, I was pretty sure that they were truly the Lady Mirdath and hermaid; and so I took chance when they had danced somewhat my way, to stepover to them, and ask boldly for a dance. But, indeed, the tall oneanswered, simpering, that she was promised; and immediately gave herhand to a great hulking farmer-lout, and went round the green with him;and well punished she was for her waywardness; for she had all her skillto save her pretty feet from his loutish stampings; and very glad shewas to meet the end of the dance.And I knew now for certainty that it was Mirdath the Beautiful, despiteher plan of disguise, and the darkness and the wench's dress and thefoot-gear that marred her step so great. And I walked across to her, and
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][DANGER]named her, whispering, by name; and gave her plain word to be done ofthis unwisdom, and I would take her home. But she to turn from me, andshe stamped her foot, and went again to the lout; and when she hadsuffered another dance with him, she bid him be her escort a part of theway; the which he was nothing loath of.And another lad, that was mate to him, went likewise; and in a moment,so soon as they were gone away from the light of the torches, the roughhind-lads made to set their arms about the waists of the two wenches,not wetting who they had for companions. And the Lady Mirdath was nolonger able to endure, and cried out in her sudden fear and disgust, andstruck the rough hind that embraced her, so hard that he loosed her amoment, swearing great oaths. And directly he came back to her again,
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][ACTION]and had her in a moment, to kiss her; and she, loathing him to the verydeath, beat him madly in the face with her hands; but to no end, onlythat I was close upon them. And, in that moment, she screamed my namealoud; and I caught the poor lout and hit him once, but not to harm himovermuch; yet to give him a long memory of me; and afterward I threw himinto the side of the road. But the second hind, having heard my name,loosed from the tiring-maid, and ran for his life; and, indeed, mystrength was known all about that part.And I caught Mirdath the Beautiful by her shoulders, and shook her verysoundly, in my anger. And afterward, I sent the maid onward; and she,
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT][EMOTION][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][TRANSITION][METAPHOR]having no word from her Mistress to stay, went forward a little; and inthis fashion we came at last to the hedge-gap, with the Lady Mirdathvery hushed; but yet walking anigh to me, as that she had some secretpleasure of my nearness. And I led her through the gap, and so homewardto the Hall; and there bid her good-night at a side door that she heldthe key of. And, truly, she bid me good-night in an utter quiet voice;and was almost as that she had no haste to be gone from me that night.Yet, when I met her on the morrow, she was full of a constant impudenceto me; so that, having her alone to myself, when the dusk was come, Iasked her why she would never be done of her waywardness; because that Iached to have companionship of her; and, instead, she denied my need.
[CONFLICT][METAPHOR][TRANSITION]And, at that, she was at once very gentle; and full of a sweet andwinsome understanding; and surely knew that I wished to be rested; forshe brought out her harp, and played me dear olden melodies of ourchildhood-days all that evening; and so had my love for her the moreintent and glad. And she saw me that night to the hedge-gap, having herthree great boar-hounds with her, to company her home again. But,indeed, I followed her afterwards, very silent, until I saw her safeinto the Hall; for I would not have her alone in the night; though shebelieved that I was then far away on the country road. And as she walkedwith her dogs, one or another would run back to me, to nose against mefriendly-wise; but I sent them off again very quiet; and she had noknowledge of aught; for she to go singing a love-song quietly all theway home. But whether she loved me, I could not tell; though she had a
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT][EMOTION][PROBLEM]nice affection for me.Now, on the following evening, I went somewhat early to the gap; and lo!who should be standing in the gap, talking to the Lady Mirdath; but avery clever-drest man, that had a look of the Court about him; and he,when I approached, made no way for me through the gap; but stood firm,and eyed me very insolent; so that I put out my hand, and lifted himfrom my way.And lo! the Lady Mirdath turned a bitterness of speech upon me that gave
[EMOTION]me an utter pain and astonishment; so that I was assured in a momentthat she had no true love for me, or she had never striven so to put meto shame before the stranger, and named me uncouth and brutal to asmaller man. And, indeed, you shall perceive how I was in my heart inthat moment.And I saw that there was some seeming of justice in what the LadyMirdath said; but yet might the man have shown a better spirit; andmoreover Mirdath the Beautiful had no true call to shame me, her truefriend and cousin, before this stranger. Yet did I not stop to argue;but bowed very low to the Lady Mirdath; and afterward I bowed a littleto the man and made apology; for, indeed, he was neither great norstrong-made; and I had been better man to have shown courtesy to him; atleast in the first.
And so, having done justice to my own respect, I turned and went on, andleft them to their happiness.Now, I walked then, maybe twenty good miles, before I came to my ownhome; for there was no rest in me all that night, or ever, because thatI was grown deadly in love of Mirdath the Beautiful; and all my spiritand heart and body of me pained with the dreadful loss that I was comeso sudden upon.And for a great week I had my walks in another direction; but in the endof that week, I must take my walk along the olden way, that I mightchance to have but a sight of My Lady. And, truly, I had all sight thatever man did need to put him in dread pain and jealousy; for, truly, asI came in view of the gap, there was the Lady Mirdath walking justwithout the borders of the great wood; and beside her there walked theclever-drest man of the Court, and she suffered his arm around her, sothat I knew they were lovers; for the Lady Mirdath had no brothers norany youthful men kin.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][CHARACTERIZATION][CHARACTER][SURPRISE][TRANSITION]Yet, when Mirdath saw me upon the road, she shamed in a moment to be socaught; for she put her lover's arm from about her, and bowed to me, alittle changed of colour in the face; and I bowed very low--being but ayoung man myself--; and so passed on, with my heart very dead in me. Andas I went, I saw that her lover came again to her, and had his arm oncemore about her; and so, maybe, they looked after me, as I went verystiff and desperate; but, indeed, I looked not back on them, as you maythink.And for a great month then, I went not near to the gap; for my loveraged in me, and I was hurt in my pride; and, truly, neither had a truejustice been dealt to me by the Lady Mirdath. Yet in that month, my lovewas a leaven in me, and made slowly a sweetness and a tenderness and anunderstanding that were not in me before; and truly Love and Pain doshape the Character of Man.
And in the end of that time, I saw a little way into Life, with anunderstanding heart, and began presently to take my walks again past thegap; but truly Mirdath the Beautiful was never to my sight; though oneevening I thought she might be not a great way off; for one of her greatboar-hounds came out of the wood, and down into the road to nose againstme, very friendly, as a dog oft doth with me.Yet, though I waited a good time after the dog had left me, I had nosight of Mirdath, and so passed on again, with my heart heavy in me; butwithout bitterness, because of the understanding that was begun to growin my heart.Now, there passed two weary and lonely weeks, in which I grew sick tohave knowledge of the beautiful maid. And, truly, in the end of thattime, I made a sudden resolving that I would go in through the gap, andcome to the home-grounds about the Hall, and so maybe have some sight ofher.
[EMOTION][FLASHBACK][DANGER][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][SURPRISE]And this resolving I had one evening; and I went out immediately, andcame to the gap, and went in through the gap, and so by a long walkingto the gardens about the Hall. And, truly, when I was come there, I sawa good light of lanthorns and torches, and a great company of peopledancing; and all drest in quaint dress; so that I knew they had afestival for some cause. And there came suddenly a horrid dread into myheart that this might be the marriage-dance of the Lady Mirdath; but,indeed, this was foolishness; for I had surely heard of the marriage, ifthere had been any. And, truly, in a moment, I remembered that she wascome one-and-twenty years of age on that day, and to the end of herward-ship; and this surely to be festival in honour of the same.
[EMOTION][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT]And a very bright and pretty matter it was to watch, save that I was soheavy in the heart with loneliness and longing; for the company wasgreat and gay, and the lights plentiful and set all about from thetrees; and in leaf-made arbours about the great lawn. And a great tablespread with eating matters and silver and crystal, and great lamps ofbronze and silver went all a-down one end of the lawn; and the danceconstant upon the other part.And surely, the Lady Mirdath to step out of the dance, very lovelydrest; yet seeming, to mine eyes, a little pale in the looming of thelights. And she to wander to a seat to rest; and, indeed, in a moment,there to be a dozen youths of the great families of the country-side, inattendance about her, making talk and laughter, and each eager for herfavour; and she very lovely in the midst of them, but yet, as I didthink, lacking of somewhat, and a little pale-seeming, as I have told;and her glance to go odd-wise beyond the groupt men about her; so that Iunderstood in a moment that her lover was not there, and she to bea-lack in the heart for him. Yet, why he was not there, I could not
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE]suppose, save that he might have been called back to the Court.And, surely, as I watched the other young men about her, I burned with afierce and miserable jealousy of them; so that I could near have steptforth and plucked her out from among them, and had her to walk with mein the woods, as in the olden days, when she also had seemed near tolove. But, truly, what use to this? For it was not they who held herheart, as I saw plain; for I watched her, with an eager and lonesomeheart, and knew that it was one small man of the Court that was lover toher, as I have told.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]And I went away again then, and came not near to the gap for three greatmonths, because that I could not bear the pain of my loss; but in theend of that time, my very pain to urge me to go, and to be worse thanthe pain of not going; so that I found myself one evening in the gap,peering, very eager and shaken, across the sward that lay between thegap and the woods; for this same place to be as an holy ground to me;for there was it that first I saw Mirdath the Beautiful, and surely lostmy heart to her in that one night.And a great time I stayed there in the gap, waiting and watchinghopelessly. And lo! sudden there came something against me, touching mythigh very soft; and when I looked down, it was one of the boar-hounds,so that my heart leaped, near frightened; for truly My Lady was comesomewhere nigh, as I did think.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][TRANSITION][HORROR]And, as I waited, very hushed and watchful; yet with an utter beatingheart; surely I heard a faint and low singing among the trees, so uttersad. And lo! it was Mirdath singing a broken love song, and a-wanderthere in the dark alone, save for her great dogs.And I harked, with strange pain in me, that she did be so in pain; and Iached to bring her ease; yet moved not, but was very still there in thegap; save that my being was all in turmoil.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]And presently, as I harked, there came a slim white figure out fromamong the trees; and the figure cried out something, and came to a quickpause, as I could see in the half-dark. And lo! in that moment, therecame a sudden and unreasoned hope into me; and I came up out of the gap,and was come to Mirdath in a moment, calling very low and passionate andeager: [DIALOGUE]"Mirdath! Mirdath! Mirdath!"And this way I came to her; and her great dog that was with me, to boundbeside me, in thought, mayhap, that it was some game. And when I came tothe Lady Mirdath, I held out my hands to her, not knowing what I did;but only the telling of my heart that needed her so utter, and craved toease her of her pain. And lo! she put out her arms to me, and came into
[EMOTION]mine arms with a little run. And there she bode, weeping strangely; butyet with rest upon her; even as rest was come sudden and wondrous uponme.And sudden, she moved in mine arms, and slipt her hands to me, verydear, and held her lips up to me, like some sweet child, that I kissher; but, indeed, she was also a true woman, and in honest and dear loveof me.And this to be the way of our betrothal; and simple and wordless it was;yet sufficient, only that there is no sufficiency in Love.
Now, presently, she loosed herself out of mine arms, and we walkedhomeward through the woods, very quiet, and holding hands, as childrendo. And I then in a while to ask her about the man of the Court; and shelaughed very sweet into the silence of the wood; but gave me no answer,save that I wait until we were come to the Hall.And when we were come there, she took me into the great hall, and made avery dainty and impudent bow, mocking me. And so made me known toanother lady, who sat there, upon her task of embroidering, which shedid very demure, and as that she had also a dainty Mischief lurking inher.
[EMOTION]And truly, the Lady Mirdath never to be done of naughty laughter, thatmade her dearly breathless with delight, and to sway a little, and setthe trembling of pretty sounds in her throat; and surely she must pulldown two great pistols from an arm-rack, that I fight a duel to thedeath with the lady of the embroidering, who held her face down over herwork, and shook likewise with the wickedness of her laughter that shecould not hide.And in the end, the Lady of the Embroidering looked up sudden into myface; and I then to see somewhat of the mischief in a moment; for shehad the face of the man of the Court suit, that had been lover toMirdath.And the Lady Mirdath then to explain to me how that Mistress Alison(which was her name) was a dear and bosom friend, and she it was thathad been drest in the Court suit to play a prank for a wager with acertain young man who would be lover to her, an he might. And I then tocome along, and so speedy to offence that truly I never saw her faceplain, because that I was so utter jealous. And so the Lady Mirdath had
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][CONTEXT]been more justly in anger than I supposed, because that I had put handsupon her friend, as I have told.And this to be all of it, save that they had planned to punish me, andhad met every evening at the gap, to play at lovers, perchance I shouldpass, so that I should have greater cause for my jealousy, and trulythey to have a good revenge upon me; for I had suffered very great along while because of it.Yet, as you do mind, when I came upon them, the Lady Mirdath had ahalf-regret, that was very natural, because even then she was in love ofme, as I of her; and because of this, she drew away, as you shallremember, being--as she confessed--suddenly and strangely troubled andto want me; but afterwards as much set again to my punishment, becausethat I bowed so cold and went away. And indeed well I might.
Yet, truly, all was safe ended now, and I utter thankful and with a maddelight in the heart; so that I caught up Mirdath, and we danced veryslow and stately around the great hall, the while that Mistress Alisonwhistled us a tune with her mouth, which she could very clever, as manyanother thing, I wot.And each day and all day after this Gladness, Mirdath and I could neverbe apart; but must go a-wander always together, here and there, in anunending joy of our togetherness.And in a thousand things were we at one in delight; for we had both ofus that nature which doth love the blue of eternity which gathers beyondthe wings of the sunset; and the invisible sound of the starlightfalling upon the world; and the quiet of grey evenings when the Towersof Sleep are builded unto the mystery of the Dusk; and the solemn greenof strange pastures in the moonlight; and the speech of the sycamoreunto the beech; and the slow way of the sea when it doth mood; and thesoft rustling of the night clouds. And likewise had we eyes to see theDancer of the Sunset, casting her mighty robes so strange; and ears toknow that there shakes a silent thunder over the Face of Dawn; and muchelse that we knew and saw and understood together in our utter joy.
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK][DANGER]Now, there happened to us about this time a certain adventure that camenear to cause the death of Mirdath the Beautiful; for one day as wewandered, as ever, like two children in our contentment, I made remarkto Mirdath that there went only two of the great boar-hounds with us;and she then told me that the third was to the kennels, being sick.Yet, scarce had she told me so much; ere she cried out something andpointed; and lo! I saw that the third hound came towards us, at a run,yet very strange-seeming in his going. And in a moment, Mirdath criedout that the hound was mad; and truly, I saw then that the bruteslavered as he came running.
[DEATH][ACTION][CONFLICT][DANGER][SURPRISE]And in a moment he was upon us, and made never a sound; but leaped at mein one instant of time; all before I had any thought of such intent. Butsurely, My Beautiful One had a dreadful love for me, for she castherself at the dog, to save me, calling to the other hounds. And she wasbitten in a moment by the brute, as she strove to hold him off from me.But I to have him instant by the neck and the body, and brake him, sothat he died at once; and I cast him to the earth, and gave help toMirdath, that I draw the poison from the wounds.
[EMOTION]And this I did so well as I might, despite that she would have me stop.And afterwards, I took her into mine arms, and ran very fierce all thelong and weary way to the Hall, and with hot skewers I burned thewounds; so that when the doctor came, he to say I have saved her by mycare, if indeed she to be saved. But, truly, she had saved me in anywise, as you shall think; so that I could never be done of honour toher.And she very pale; but yet to laugh at my fears, and to say that shesoon to have her health, and the wounds healed very speedy; but, indeed,it was a long and bitter time before they were proper healed, and she sowell as ever. Yet, in time, so it was; and an utter weight off my heart.
[CONTEXT]And when Mirdath was grown full strong again, we set our wedding day.And well do I mind how she stood there in her bridal dress, on that day,so slender and lovely as may Love have stood in the Dawn of Life; andthe beauty of her eyes that had such sober sweetness in them, despitethe dear mischief of her nature; and the way of her little feet, and theloveliness of her hair; and the dainty rogue-grace of her movements; andher mouth an enticement, as that a child and a woman smiled out of theone face. And this to be no more than but an hint of the loveliness ofMy Beautiful One.And so we were married.
[EMOTION][FLASHBACK]Mirdath, My Beautiful One, lay dying, and I had no power to hold Deathbackward from such dread intent. In another room, I heard the littlewail of the child; and the wail of the child waked my wife back intothis life, so that her hands fluttered white and desperately needfulupon the coverlid.I kneeled beside My Beautiful One, and reached out and took her handsvery gentle into mine; but still they fluttered so needful; and shelooked at me, dumbly; but her eyes beseeching.Then I went out of the room, and called gently to the Nurse; and theNurse brought in the child, wrapped very softly in a long, white robe.
And I saw the eyes of My Beautiful One grow clearer with a strange,lovely light; and I beckoned to the Nurse to bring the babe near.My wife moved her hands very weakly upon the coverlid, and I knew thatshe craved to touch her child; and I signed to the Nurse, and took mychild in mine arms; and the Nurse went out from the room, and so wethree were alone together.Then I sat very gentle upon the bed; and I held the babe near to MyBeautiful One, so that the wee cheek of the babe touched the white cheekof my dying wife; but the weight of the child I kept off from her.And presently, I knew that Mirdath, My Wife, strove dumbly to reach forthe hands of the babe; and I turned the child more towards her, andslipped the hands of the child into the weak hands of My Beautiful One.
[DEATH][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK]And I held the babe above my wife, with an utter care; so that the eyesof my dying One, looked into the young eyes of the child. And presently,in but a few moments of time; though it had been someways an eternity,My Beautiful One closed her eyes and lay very quiet. And I took away thechild to the Nurse, who stood beyond the door. And I closed the door,and came back to Mine Own, that we have those last instants alonetogether.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][TRANSITION][ACTION]And the hands of my wife lay very still and white; but presently theybegan to move softly and weakly, searching for somewhat; and I put outmy great hands to her, and took her hands with an utter care; and so alittle time passed.Then her eyes opened, quiet and grey, and a little dazed seeming; andshe rolled her head on the pillow and saw me; and the pain offorgetfulness went out of her eyes, and she looked at me with a lookthat grew in strength, unto a sweetness of tenderness and fullunderstanding.And I bent a little to her; and her eyes told me to take her into minearms for those last minutes. Then I went very gentle upon the bed, andlifted her with an utter and tender care, so that she lay suddenlystrangely restful against my breast; for Love gave me skill to hold her,and Love gave My Beautiful One a sweetness of ease in that little timethat was left to us.
And so we twain were together; and Love seemed that it had made a trucewith Death in the air about us, that we be undisturbed; for there came adrowse of rest even upon my tense heart, that had known nothing but adreadful pain through the weary hours.And I whispered my love silently to My Beautiful One, and her eyesanswered; and the strangely beautiful and terrible moments passed byinto the hush of eternity.And suddenly, Mirdath My Beautiful One, spoke,--whispering something.And I stooped gently to hark; and Mine Own spoke again; and lo! it was
[SURPRISE][FLASHBACK][DEATH][TRANSITION][PROBLEM][EMOTION]to call me by the olden Love Name that had been mine through all theutter lovely months of our togetherness.And I began again to tell her of my love, that should pass beyond death;and lo! in that one moment of time, the light went out of her eyes; andMy Beautiful One lay dead in mine arms ... My Beautiful One....
IITHE LAST REDOUBTSince Mirdath, My Beautiful One, died and left me lonely in this world,I have suffered an anguish, and an utter and dreadful pain of longing,such as truly no words shall ever tell; for, in truth, I that had allthe world through her sweet love and companionship, and knew all the joyand gladness of Life, have known such lonesome misery as doth stun me tothink upon.Yet am I to my pen again; for of late a wondrous hope has grown in me,in that I have, at night in my sleep, waked into the future of thisworld, and seen strange things and utter marvels, and known once morethe gladness of life; for I have learned the promise of the future, andhave visited in my dreams those places where in the womb of Time, sheand I shall come together, and part, and again come together--breakingasunder most drearly in pain, and again reuniting after strange ages, ina glad and mighty wonder.And this is the utter strange story of that which I have seen, andwhich, truly, I must set out, if the task be not too great; so that, inthe setting out thereof, I may gain a little ease of the heart; andlikewise, mayhap, give ease of hope to some other poor human, that dothsuffer, even as I have suffered so dreadful with longing for Mine Ownthat is dead.And some shall read and say that this thing was not, and some shalldispute with them; but to them all I say naught, save [DIALOGUE]"Read!" And havingread that which I set down, then shall one and all have looked towardsEternity with me--unto its very portals. And so to my telling:
To me, in this last time of my visions, of which I would tell, it wasnot as if I _dreamed_; but, as it were, that I _waked_ there into thedark, _in the future of this world_. And the sun had died; and for methus newly waked into that Future, to look back upon this, our PresentAge, was to look back into dreams that my soul knew to be of reality;but which to those newly-seeing eyes of mine, appeared but as a farvision, strangely hallowed with peacefulness and light.Always, it seemed to me when I awaked into the Future, into theEverlasting Night that lapped this world, that I saw near to me, andgirdling me all about, a blurred greyness. And presently this, thegreyness, would clear and fade from about me, even as a dusky cloud, andI would look out upon a world of darkness, lit here and there withstrange sights. And with my waking into that Future, I waked not to
ignorance; but to a full knowledge of those things which lit the NightLand; even as a man wakes from sleep each morning, and knows immediatelyhe wakes, the names and knowledge of the Time which has bred him, and inwhich he lives. And the same while, a knowledge I had, as it weresub-conscious, of this Present--this early life, which now I live soutterly alone.In my earliest knowledge of _that_ place, I was a youth, seventeen yearsgrown, and my memory tells me that when first I waked, or came, as itmight be said, to myself, in that Future, I stood in one of theembrasures of the Last Redoubt--that great Pyramid of grey metal whichheld the last millions of this world from the Powers of the Slayers.And so full am I of the knowledge of that Place, that scarce can Ibelieve that none here know; and because I have such difficulty, it maybe that I speak over familiarly of those things of which I know; andheed not to explain much that it is needful that I should explain tothose who must read here, in this our present day. For there, as I stood
[EMOTION]and looked out, I was less the man of years of _this_ age, than theyouth of _that_, with the natural knowledge of _that_ life which I hadgathered by living all my seventeen years of life there; though, untilthat my first vision, I (of this Age) knew not of that other and FutureExistence; yet woke to it so naturally as may a man wake here in his bedto the shining of the morning sun, and know it by name, and the meaningof aught else. And yet, as I stood there in the vast embrasure, I hadalso a knowledge, or memory, of this present life of ours, deep downwithin me; but touched with a halo of dreams, and yet with a consciouslonging for One, known even there in a half memory as Mirdath.As I have said, in my earliest memory, I mind that I stood in anembrasure, high up in the side of the Pyramid, and looked outwardsthrough a queer spy-glass to the North-West. Aye, full of youth and withan adventurous and yet half-fearful heart.
And in my brain was, as I have told, the knowledge that had come to mein all the years of my life in the Redoubt; and yet until that moment,this _Man of this Present Time_ had no knowledge of that futureexistence; and now I stood and had suddenly the knowledge of a lifealready spent in that strange land, and deeper within me the mistyknowings of this our present Age, and, maybe, also of some others.To the North-West I looked through the queer spy-glass, and saw alandscape that I had looked upon and pored upon through all the years ofthat life, so that I knew how to name this thing and that thing, andgive the very distances of each and every one from the [DIALOGUE]"Centre-Point" ofthe Pyramid, which was that which had neither length nor breadth, andwas made of polished metal in the Room of Mathematics, where I wentdaily to my studies.To the North-West I looked, and in the wide field of my glass, saw plainthe bright glare of the fire from the Red Pit, shine upwards against theunderside of the vast chin of the North-West Watcher--The Watching Thingof the North-West.... "That which hath Watched from the Beginning, and
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE]until the opening of the Gateway of Eternity" came into my thoughts, asI looked through the glass ... the words of Aesworpth, the _Ancient_Poet (though incredibly _future_ to this our time). And suddenly they
[PROBLEM]seemed at fault; for I looked deep down into my being, and saw, asdreams are seen, the sunlight and splendour of _this_ our Present Age.And I was amazed.And here I must make it clear to all that, even as I waked from _this_Age, suddenly into _that_ life, so must I--_that_ youth there in theembrasure--have awakened then to the knowledge of _this_ far-back lifeof ours--seeming to him a vision of the very beginnings of eternity, inthe dawn of the world. Oh! I do but dread I make it not sufficient clear
[CONFLICT][SURPRISE]that I and he were both _I_--the same soul. He of that far date seeingvaguely the life that _was_ (that I do now live in this present Age);and I of this time beholding the life that I yet shall live. How utterlystrange!And yet, I do not know that I speak holy truth to say that I, in thatfuture time, had _no_ knowledge of _this_ life and Age, before thatawakening; for I woke to find that I was one who stood apart from theother youths, in that I had a dim knowledge--visionary, as it were, ofthe past, which confounded, whilst yet it angered, those who were themen of learning of that age; though of this matter, more anon. But this
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][SURPRISE]I do know, that from that time, onwards, my knowledge and assuredness ofthe Past was tenfold; for this my memory of that life told me.And so to further my telling. Yet before I pass onwards, one other thingis there of which I shall speak--In the moment in which I waked out ofthat youthfulness, into the assured awaredness of _this_ our Age, inthat moment the hunger of this my love flew to me across the ages; sothat what had been but a memory-dream, grew to the pain of _Reality_,and I knew suddenly that I _lacked_; and from that time onwards, I went,listening, as even now my life is spent.And so it was that I (fresh-born in that future time) hungered strangelyfor My Beautiful One with all the strength of that new life, knowingthat she had been mine, and might live again, even as I. And so, as I
[EMOTION][FLASHBACK]have said, I hungered, and found that I listened.And now, to go back from my digression, it was, as I have said, I hadamazement at perceiving, in memory, the unknowable sunshine andsplendour of this age breaking so clear through my hitherto most vagueand hazy visions; so that the ignorance of, Aesworpth was shouted to meby the things which now I _knew_.And from that time, onward, for a little space, I was stunned with allthat I knew and guessed and felt; and all of a long while the hungergrew for that one I had lost in the early days--she who had sung to mein those faery days of light, that _had been_ in verity. And theespecial thoughts of that age looked back with a keen, regretful wonderinto the gulf of forgetfulness.
But, presently, I turned from the haze and pain of my dream-memories,once more to the inconceivable mystery of the Night Land, which I viewedthrough the great embrasure. For on none did it ever come with wearinessto look out upon all the hideous mysteries; so that old and youngwatched, from early years to death, the black monstrosity of the NightLand, which this our last refuge of humanity held at bay.To the right of the Red Pit there lay a long, sinuous glare, which Iknew as the Vale of Red Fire, and beyond that for many dreary miles theblackness of the Night Land; across which came the coldness of the lightfrom the Plain of Blue Fire.And then, on the very borders of the Unknown Lands, there lay a range oflow volcanoes, which lit up, far away in the outer darkness, the BlackHills, where shone the Seven Lights, which neither twinkled nor movednor faltered through Eternity; and of which even the great spy-glasscould make no understanding; nor had any adventurer from the Pyramidever come back to tell us aught of them. And here let me say, that down
in the Great Library of the Redoubt, were the histories of all those,with their discoveries, who had ventured out into the monstrousness ofthe Night Land, risking not the life only, but the spirit of life.And surely it is all so strange and wonderful to set out, that I couldalmost despair with the contemplation of that which I must achieve; forthere is so much to tell, and so few words given to man by which he maymake clear that which lies beyond the sight and the present and generalknowings of Peoples.How shall you ever know, as I know in verity, of the greatness andreality and terror of the thing that I would tell plain to all; for we,with our puny span of recorded life must have great histories to tell,but the few bare details we know concerning years that are but a fewthousands in all; and I must set out to you in the short pages of thismy life there, a sufficiency of the life that had been, and the lifethat was, both within and without that mighty Pyramid, to make clear tothose who may read, the truth of that which I would tell; and thehistories of that great Redoubt dealt not with odd thousands of years;but with very millions; aye, away back into what they of that Ageconceived to be the early days of the earth, when the sun, maybe, stillgloomed dully in the night sky of the world. But of all that wentbefore, nothing, save as myths, and matters to be taken most cautiously,and believed not by men of sanity and proved wisdom.
[PROBLEM][SURPRISE]And I, ...how shall I make all this clear to you who may read? The thing
[FLASHBACK][MONSTER]cannot be; and yet I must tell my history; for to be silent before somuch wonder would be to suffer of too full a heart; and I must even easemy spirit by this my struggle to tell to all how it was with me, and howit will be. Aye, even to the memories which were the possession of thatfar future youth, who was indeed I, of his childhood's days, when hisnurse of that Age swung him, and crooned impossible lullabies of thismythical sun which, according to those future fairy-tales, had oncepassed across the blackness that now lay above the Pyramid.Such is the monstrous futureness of this which I have seen through thebody of that far-off youth.And so back to my telling. To my right, which was to the North, there
[DANGER][PROBLEM][HAUNTED HOUSE]stood, very far away, the House of Silence, upon a low hill. And in thatHouse were many lights, and no sound. And so had it been through anuncountable Eternity of Years. Always those steady lights, and nowhisper of sound--not even such as our distance-microphones could havediscovered. And the danger of this House was accounted the greatest
danger of all those Lands.And round by the House of Silence, wound the Road Where The Silent OnesWalk. And concerning this Road, which passed out of the Unknown Lands,nigh by the Place of the Ab-humans, where was always the green, luminousmist, nothing was known; save that it was held that, of all the worksabout the Mighty Pyramid, it was, alone, the one that was bred, longages past, of healthy human toil and labour. And on this point alone,had a thousand books, and more, been writ; and all contrary, and so tono end, as is ever the way in such matters.
[DANGER][HORROR]And as it was with the Road Where The Silent Ones Walk, so it was withall those other monstrous things ... whole libraries had there been madeupon this and upon that; and many a thousand million mouldered into theforgotten dust of the earlier world.
I mind me now that presently I stepped upon the centraltravelling-roadway which spanned the one thousandth plateau of the GreatRedoubt. And this lay six miles and thirty fathoms above the Plain ofthe Night Land, and was somewhat of a great mile or more across. And so,in a few minutes, I was at the South-Eastern wall, and looking outthrough The Great Embrasure towards the Three Silver-fire Holes, thatshone before the Thing That Nods, away down, far in the South-East.Southward of this, but nearer, there rose the vast bulk of theSouth-East Watcher--The Watching Thing of the South-East. And to the
[EMOTION]right and to the left of the squat monster burned the Torches; maybehalf-a-mile upon each side; yet sufficient light they threw to show thelumbered-forward head of the never-sleeping Brute.To the East, as I stood there in the quietness of the Sleeping-Time onthe One Thousandth Plateau, I heard a far, dreadful sound, down in thelightless East; and, presently, again--a strange, dreadful laughter,deep as a low thunder among the mountains. And because this sound cameodd whiles from the Unknown Lands beyond the Valley of The Hounds, wehad named that far and never-seen Place [DIALOGUE]"The Country Whence Comes TheGreat Laughter." And though I had heard the sound, many and oft a time,yet did I never hear it without a most strange thrilling of my heart,and a sense of my littleness, and of the utter terror which had besetthe last millions of the world.Yet, because I had heard the Laughter oft, I paid not over-longattention to my thoughts upon it; and when, in a little it died awayinto that Eastern Darkness, I turned my spy-glass upon the Giants' Pit,which lay to the South of the Giants' Kilns. And these same Kilns were
[TRANSITION]tended by the giants, and the light of the Kilns was red and fitful, andthrew wavering shadows and lights across the mouth of the pit; so that Isaw giants crawling up out of the pit; but not properly seen, by reasonof the dance of the shadows. And so, because ever there was so much tobehold, I looked away, presently, to that which was plainer to beexamined.To the back of the Giants' Pit was a great, black Headland, that stoodvast, between the Valley of The Hounds (where lived the monstrous NightHounds) and the Giants. And the light of the Kilns struck the brow ofthis black Headland; so that, constantly, I saw things peer over theedge, coming forward a little into the light of the Kilns, and drawingback swiftly into the shadows. And thus it had been ever, through the
uncounted ages; so that the Headland was known as The Headland FromWhich Strange Things Peer; and thus was it marked in our maps and chartsof that grim world.And so I could go on ever; but that I fear to weary; and yet, whether Ido weary, or not, I must tell of this country that I see, even now as Iset my thoughts down, so plainly that my memory wanders in a hushed andsecret fashion along its starkness, and amid its strange and dreadhabitants, so that it is but by an effort I realise me that my body isnot there in this very moment that I write. And so to further tellings:Before me ran the Road Where The Silent Ones Walk; and I searched it, asmany a time in my earlier youth had I, with the spy-glass; for my heartwas always stirred mightily by the sight of those Silent Ones.And, presently, alone in all the miles of that night-grey road, I sawone in the field of my glass--a quiet, cloaked figure, moving along,shrouded, and looking neither to right nor left. And thus was it with
[TRANSITION][SURPRISE]these beings ever. It was told about in the Redoubt that they would harmno human, if but the human did keep a fair distance from them; but thatit were wise never to come close upon one. And this I can well believe.And so, searching the road with my gaze, I passed beyond this SilentOne, and past the place where the road, sweeping vastly to theSouth-East, was lit a space, strangely, by the light from theSilver-fire Holes. And thus at last to where it swayed to the South of
[MONSTER]the Dark Palace, and thence Southward still, until it passed round tothe Westward, beyond the mountain bulk of the Watching Thing in theSouth--the hugest monster in all the visible Night Lands. My spy-glassshowed it to me with clearness--a living hill of watchfulness, known tous as The Watcher Of The South. It brooded there, squat and tremendous,hunched over the pale radiance of the Glowing Dome.Much, I know, had been writ concerning this Odd, Vast Watcher; for ithad grown out of the blackness of the South Unknown Lands a millionyears gone; and the steady growing nearness of it had been noted and setout at length by the men they called Monstruwacans; so that it waspossible to search in our libraries, and learn of the very coming ofthis Beast in the olden-time.
[TRANSITION][CONTEXT][MONSTER]And, while I mind me, there were even then, and always, men namedMonstruwacans, whose duty it was to take heed of the great Forces, andto watch the Monsters and the Beasts that beset the great Pyramid, andmeasure and record, and have so full a knowledge of these same that, didone but sway an head in the darkness, the same matter was set down withparticularness in the Records.And, so to tell more about the South Watcher. A million years gone, as Ihave told, came it out from the blackness of the South, and grewsteadily nearer through twenty thousand years; but so slow that in noone year could a man perceive that it had moved.Yet it had movement, and had come thus far upon its road to the Redoubt,when the Glowing Dome rose out of the ground before it--growing slowly.
And this had stayed the way of the Monster; so that through an eternityit had looked towards the Pyramid across the pale glare of the Dome, andseeming to have no power to advance nearer.And because of this, much had been writ to prove that there were otherforces than evil at work in the Night Lands, about the Last Redoubt. Andthis I have always thought to be wisely said; and, indeed, there to beno doubt to the matter, for there were many things in the time of whichI have knowledge, which seemed to make clear that, even as the Forces ofDarkness were loose upon the End of Man; so were there other Forces outto do battle with the Terror; though in ways most strange and unthoughtof by the human mind. And of this I shall have more to tell anon.
[MONSTER]And here, before I go further with my telling, let me set out some ofthat knowledge which yet remains so clear within my mind and heart. Ofthe coming of these monstrosities and evil Forces, no man could say muchwith verity; for the evil of it began before the Histories of the GreatRedoubt were shaped; aye, even before the sun had lost all power tolight; though, it must not be a thing of certainty, that even at thisfar time the invisible, black heavens held no warmth for this world; butof this I have no room to tell; and must pass on to that of which I havea more certain knowledge.The evil must surely have begun in the Days of the Darkening (which Imight liken to a story which was believed doubtfully, much as we of thisday believe the story of the Creation). A dim record there was of oldensciences (that are yet far off in our future) which, disturbing theunmeasurable Outward Powers, had allowed to pass the Barrier of Lifesome of those Monsters and Ab-human creatures, which are so wondrouslycushioned from us at this normal present. And thus there had
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][HORROR]materialized, and in other cases developed, grotesque and horribleCreatures, which now beset the humans of this world. And where there wasno power to take on material form, there had been allowed to certaindreadful Forces to have power to affect the life of the human spirit.And this growing very dreadful, and the world full of lawlessness anddegeneracy, there had banded together the sound millions, and built theLast Redoubt; there in the twilight of the world--so it seems to us, andyet to them (bred at last to the peace of usage) as it were theBeginning; and this I can make no clearer; and none hath right to expectit; for my task is very great, and beyond the power of human skill.And when the humans had built the great Pyramid, it had one thousandthree hundred and twenty floors; and the thickness of each floor wasaccording to the strength of its need. And the whole height of this
[SURPRISE]pyramid exceeded seven miles, by near a mile, and above it was a towerfrom which the Watchmen looked (these being called the Monstruwacans).But where the Redoubt was built, I know not; save that I believe in amighty valley, of which I may tell more in due time.And when the Pyramid was built, the last millions, who were the Buildersthereof, went within, and made themselves a great house and city of thisLast Redoubt. And thus began the Second History of this world. And how
[PROBLEM]shall I set it all down in these little pages! For my task, even as Isee it, is too great for the power of a single life and a single pen.Yet, to it!And, later, through hundreds and thousands of years, there grew up inthe Outer Lands, beyond those which lay under the guard of the Redoubt,mighty and lost races of terrible creatures, half men and half beast,and evil and dreadful; and these made war upon the Redoubt; but werebeaten off from that grim, metal mountain, with a vast slaughter. Yet,
must there have been many such attacks, until the electric circle wasput about the Pyramid, and lit from the Earth-Current. And the lowesthalf-mile of the Pyramid was sealed; and so at last there was a peace,and the beginnings of that Eternity of quiet watching for the day whenthe Earth-Current shall become exhausted.And, at whiles, through the forgotten centuries, had the Creatures beenglutted time and again upon such odd bands of daring ones as hadadventured forth to explore through the mystery of the Night Lands; forof those who went, scarce any did ever return; for there were eyes inall that dark; and Powers and Forces abroad which had all knowledge; orso we must fain believe.And then, so it would seem, as that Eternal Night lengthened itself uponthe world, the power of terror grew and strengthened. And fresh and
greater monsters developed and bred out of all space and OutwardDimensions, attracted, even as it might be Infernal sharks, by thatlonely and mighty hill of humanity, facing its end--so near to theEternal, and yet so far deferred in the minds and to the senses of thosehumans. And thus hath it been ever.And all this but by the way, and vague and ill told, and set out indespair to make a little clear the beginnings of that State which is sostrange to our conceptions, and yet which had become a Condition ofNaturalness to Humanity in that stupendous future.Thus had the giants come, fathered of bestial humans and mothered ofmonsters. And many and diverse were the creatures which had some human
[MONSTER]semblance; and intelligence, mechanical and cunning; so that certain ofthese lesser Brutes had machinery and underground ways, having need tosecure to themselves warmth and air, even as healthy humans; only thatthey were incredibly inured to hardship, as they might be wolves set incomparison with tender children. And surely, do I make this thing clear?And now to continue my telling concerning the Night Land. The Watcher ofthe South was, as I have set to make known, a monster differing fromthose other Watching Things, of which I have spoken, and of which therewere in all four. One to the North-West, and one to the South-East, and
of these I have told; and the other twain lay brooding, one to theSouth-West, and the other to the North-East; and thus the four watcherskept ward through the darkness, upon the Pyramid, and moved not, neithergave they out any sound. Yet did we know them to be mountains of livingwatchfulness and hideous and steadfast intelligence.And so, in a while, having listened to the sorrowful sound which cameever to us over the Grey Dunes, from the Country of Wailing, which layto the South, midway between the Redoubt and the Watcher of the South, Ipassed upon one of the moving roadways over to the South-Western side ofthe Pyramid, and looked from a narrow embrasure thence far down into theDeep Valley, which was four miles deep, and in which was the Pit of theRed Smoke.And the mouth of this Pit was one full mile across, and the smoke of thePit filled the Valley at times, so that it seemed but as a glowing redcircle amid dull thunderous clouds of redness. Yet the red smoke rose
[CONFLICT][MONSTER]never much above the Valley; so that there was clear sight across to thecountry beyond. And there, along the further edge of that great depth,were the Towers, each, maybe, a mile high, grey and quiet; but with ashimmer upon them.Beyond these, South and West of them, was the enormous bulk of theSouth-West Watcher, and from the ground rose what we named the EyeBeam--a single ray of grey light, which came up out of the ground, andlit the right eye of the monster. And because of this light, that eyehad been mightily examined through unknown thousands of years; and someheld that the eye looked through the light steadfastly at the Pyramid;but others set out that the light blinded it, and was the work of thoseOther Powers which were abroad to do combat with the Evil Forces. But
[EMOTION][DEATH][DANGER]however this may be, as I stood there in the embrasure, and looked atthe thing through the spy-glass, it seemed to my soul that the Brutelooked straightly at me, unwinking and steadfast, and fully of aknowledge that I spied upon it. And this is how I felt.To the North of this, in the direction of the West, I saw The PlaceWhere The Silent Ones Kill; and this was so named, because there, maybeten thousand years gone, certain humans adventuring from the Pyramid,came off the Road Where The Silent Ones Walk, and into that place, andwere immediately destroyed. And this was told by one who escaped; thoughhe died also very quickly, for his heart was frozen. And this I cannot
[SETTING]explain; but so it was set out in the Records.Far away beyond The Place Where The Silent Ones Kill, in the very mouthof the Western Night was the Place of the Ab-humans, where was lost theRoad Where The Silent Ones Walk, in a dull green, luminous mist. And ofthis place nothing was known; though much it held the thoughts andattentions of our thinkers and imaginers; for some said that there was aPlace Of Safety, differing from the Redoubt (as we of this day supposeHeaven to differ from the Earth), and that the Road led thence; but wasbarred by the Ab-humans. And this I can only set down here; but with nothought to justify or uphold it.
Later, I travelled over to the North-Eastern wall of the Redoubt, andlooked thence with my spy-glass at the Watcher of the North-East--theCrowned Watcher it was called, in that within the air above its vasthead there hung always a blue, luminous ring, which shed a strange lightdownwards over the monster--showing a vast, wrinkled brow (upon which anwhole library had been writ); but putting to the shadow all the lowerface; all save the ear, which came out from the back of the head, andbelled towards the Redoubt, and had been said by some observers in thepast to have been seen to quiver; but how that might be, I knew not; forno man of our days had seen such a thing.And beyond the Watching Thing was The Place Where The Silent Ones AreNever, close by the great road; which was bounded upon the far side byThe Giant's Sea; and upon the far side of that, was a Road which wasalways named The Road By The Quiet City; for it passed along that placewhere burned forever the constant and never-moving lights of a strangecity; but no glass had ever shown life there; neither had any light everceased to burn.And beyond that again was the Black Mist. And here, let me say, that theValley of The Hounds ended towards the Lights of the Quiet City.
And so have I set out something of that land, and of those creatures andcircumstances which beset us about, waiting until the Day of Doom, whenour Earth-Current should cease, and leave us helpless to the Watchersand the Abundant Terror.And there I stood, and looked forth composedly, as may one who has beenborn to know of such matters, and reared in the knowledge of them. And,anon, I would look upward, and see the grey, metalled mountain going upmeasureless into the gloom of the everlasting night; and from my feetthe sheer downward sweep of the grim, metal walls, six full miles, andmore, to the plain below.And one thing (aye! and I fear me, many) have I missed to set out with
particularness:There was, as you do know, all around the base of the Pyramid, which wasfive and one-quarter miles every way, a great circle of light, which wasset up by the Earth-Current, and burned within a transparent tube; orhad that appearance. And it bounded the Pyramid for a clear mile uponevery side, and burned for ever; and none of the monsters had power everto pass across, because of what we did call The Air Clog that it didmake, as an invisible Wall of Safety. And it did give out also a moresubtile vibration, that did affect the weak Brain-Elements of themonsters and the Lower Men-Brutes. And some did hold that there wentfrom it a further vibration of a greater subtileness that gave aprotecting against the Evil Forces. And some quality it had truly
[DANGER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CONFLICT]thiswise; for the Evil Powers had no ability to cause harm to anywithin. Yet were there some dangers against which it might not avail;but these had no cunning to bring harm to any _within_ the Great Redoubtwho had wisdom to meddle with no dreadfulness. And so were those lastmillions guarded until the Earth-Current should be used to its end. Andthis circle is that which I have called the Electric Circle; though withfailure to explain. But there it was called only, The Circle.
[CONFLICT][TRANSITION]And thus have I, with great effort, made a little clear that grim landof night, where, presently, my listening heard one calling across thedark. And how that this grew upon me, I will set out forthwith.IIITHE QUIET CALLINGNow, oft had I heard tell, not only in that great city which occupiedthe thousandth floor, but in others of the one thousand, three hundredand twenty cities of the Pyramid, that there was somewhere out in thedesolation of the Night Lands a second Place of Refuge, where hadgathered, in another part of this dead world, some last millions of thehuman race, to fight unto the end.And this story I heard everywhere in my travels through the cities ofthe Great Redoubt, which travels began when I came upon my seventeenthyear, and continued for three years and two hundred and twenty fivedays, being even then but one day in each city, as was the custom in thetraining of every child.
And truly it was a great journey, and in it I met with many, whom toknow was to love; but whom never could I see again; for life has notspace enough; and each must to his duty to the security and well-beingof the Redoubt. Yet, for all that I have set down, we travelled much,always; but there were so many millions, and so few years.And, as I have said, everywhere I went there was the same story of thisother Place of Refuge; and in such of the Libraries of those cities as Ihad time to search, there were great numbers of works upon the existenceof this other Refuge; and some, far back in the years, made assertionwith confidence that such a Place was in verity; and, indeed, no doubtdid there seem in those by-gone ages; but now these very Records wereread only by Scholars, who doubted, even whilst they read. And so is itever.
But of the reality of this Refuge, I had never a sound doubt, from theday of my hearing concerning it from our Master Monstruwacan, who withall his assistants occupied the Tower of Observation in the apex of thePyramid. And here let me tell that he and I had always an affinity andclose friendship one for the other; though he was full grown, and I buta youth; yet so it was; and thus, when I had come to an age oftwenty-one years of life, he opened to me a post within the Tower ofObservation; and this was a most wondrous good fortune to me; for in allthe vast Redoubt, to be appointed to the Tower of Observation was themost desired; for thereby, even as in these days doth Astronomy, was thenatural curiosity of Man eased somewhat, even while thwarted.Now, let me tell here also, lest it be thought that I was undulyfavoured because of my friendship with the Master Monstruwacan, thatthere was a sound justification for his choice, in that to me had beengiven that strange gift of hearing, which we called Night-Hearing;though this was but a fanciful name, and meant little. Yet the peculiargift was rare, and in all the millions of the Pyramid, there was nonewith the gift to a great degree, saving only myself.
[SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION]And I, because of this gift, could hear the [DIALOGUE]"invisible vibrations" ofthe aether; so that, without harking to the calling of our recordinginstruments, I could take the messages which came continually throughthe eternal darkness; aye, even better than they. And now, it may be thebetter understood, how much was to be counted that I had grown to listenfor a voice that had not rung in mine ears for an eternity, and yetwhich sang sweet and clear in my memory-dreams; so that it seemed to methat Mirdath the Beautiful slept within my soul, and whispered to me outof all the ages.And then, one day, at the fifteenth hour, when began the Sleep-Time, Ihad been pondering this love of mine that lived with me still; andmarvelling that my memory-dreams held the voice of a love that _hadbeen_ in so remote an age. And pondering and dreaming thus, as a youngman may, I could fancy this aeon-lost One were whispering beauty intomy ears, in verity; so clear had my memory grown, and so much had Ipondered.
And lo! as I stood there, harking and communing with my thoughts, Ithrilled suddenly, as if I had been smitten; for out of all theeverlasting night a whisper was thrilling and thrilling upon my moresubtile hearing.Through four long years had I listened, since that awakening in theembrasure, when but a youth of seventeen; and now out of theworld-darkness and all the eternal years of that lost life, which now Ilive in this Present Age of ours, was the whisper come; for I knew itupon that instant; and yet, because I was so taught to wisdom, Ianswered by no name; but sent the Master-Word through the night--sendingit with my brain-elements, as I could, and as all may, much or little,as may be, if they be not clods. And, moreover, I knew that she whocalled quietly would have the power to hear without instruments, ifindeed it were she; and if it were but one of the false callings of theEvil Forces, or more cunning monsters, or as was sometimes thoughtconcerning these callings, the House of Silence, meddling with oursouls, then would they have no power to say the Master-Word; for thishad been proven through all the Everlasting.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION]And lo! as I stood, trembling and striving not to be tense, whichdestroys the receptivity, there came thrilling round and round myspiritual essence the throb of the Master-Word, beating steadily in thenight, as doth that marvellous sound. And then, with all that was sweetin my spirit, I called with my brain elements: "Mirdath! Mirdath!
[MONSTER]Mirdath!" And at that instant the Master Monstruwacan entered that partof the Tower of Observation, where I stood; and, seeing my face, stoodvery quiet; for though he had not the power of Night-Hearing, he waswise and thoughtful, and took much account of my gift; more-over, he hadbut come from the Receiving Instrument, and thought vaguely to havecaught the throb of the Master-Word, though too faint to come properthrough the Instrument, so that he searched for me, in that I, who hadthe Hearing, might listen for it, I being, as I have said, gifted inthat wise.And to him I told something of my story and my thoughts and my memories,and of that awakening; and thus up to this present happening, and hehearkened with sympathy and a troubled and wondering heart; for in thatage a man might talk sanely upon that which, in this age of ours wouldbe accounted foolishness and maybe the breathings of insanity; forthere, by the refinement of arts of mentality and the results of strangeexperiments and the accomplishment of learning, men were abled toconceive of matters now closed to our conceptions, even as we of thisday may haply give a calm ear to talk, that in the days of our fatherswould have been surely set to the count of lunacy. And this is veryclear.
[MONSTER]And all the while that I told my story, I listened with my spirit; butsave for a sense of faint, happy laughter that wrapped about me, I heardnaught. And nothing more all that day.Here let me put down that, because of my memories and half memories, Iwould time and again dispute with our learned men; they being in doubtas to the verity of that olden story of the Days of Light, and theexistence of the Sun; though something of all this was set out, as of_truth_, in our oldest records; but I, remembering, told them many talesthat seemed fairy-like to them, and entranced their hearts, even whilstI angered their brains, which refused to take seriously and as veritythat which their hearts accepted gladly, even as we receive the wonderof poetry into our souls. But the Master Monstruwacan would listen toaught I had to tell; aye! though I spoke through hours; and so it would
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK][TRANSITION][METAPHOR][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE]be, odd times, that having talked long, drawing my stories from myMemory-Dreams, I would come back again into the present of that Future;and lo! all the Monstruwacans would have left their instruments andobservations and recording, and be gathered about me; and the Master sosunken in interest that he not to have discovered them; neither had Inoticed, being so full of the things which had been.But when the Master came back to knowledge of that present, he wouldrouse and chide, and they, all those lesser ones, would fly swiftly andguiltily to their various works; and yet, so I have thought since, eachwith a muddled and bewildered and thoughtful air upon him; and hungrythey were for more, and ever wondering and setting questions about.And so it was also with those others--those learned ones who were not ofthe Tower of Observation, and who disbelieved even whilst they hungered.
Listen would they, though I talked from the first hour, which was the[DIALOGUE]"dawn," to the fifteenth hour, which was the beginning of the [DIALOGUE]"night";for the Sleep-Time was set thus, after other usage and experiment. And,odd whiles, I found that there were among them, men of extraordinarylearning who upheld my tellings as tales of verity; and so there was afaction; but, later, there grew more to believe; and whether theybelieved, or not, all were ready to listen; so that I might have spendedmy days in talk; only that I had my work to do.But the Master Monstruwacan believed from the beginning, and was wisealways to understand; so that I loved him for this, as for many anotherdear quality.And so, as may be conceived, among all those millions I was singled outto be known; for the stories that I told went downward through athousand cities; and, presently, in the lowest tier of the UndergroundFields, an hundred miles deep in the earth below the Redoubt, I foundthat the very ploughboys knew something concerning my tellings; andgathered about me one time and another when the Master Monstruwacan andI had gone down, regarding some matter that dealt with the Earth-Currentand our Instruments.
[SETTING]And of the Underground Fields (though in that age we called them no morethan [DIALOGUE]"The Fields") I should set down a little; for they were themightiest work of this world; so that even the Last Redoubt was but asmall thing beside them. An hundred miles deep lay the lowest of theUnderground Fields, and was an hundred miles from side to side, everyway; and above it there were three hundred and six fields, each one lessin area than that beneath; and in this wise they tapered, until thetopmost field which lay direct beneath the lowermost floor of the GreatRedoubt, was but four miles every way.And thus it will be seen that these fields, lying one beneath the other,formed a mighty and incredible Pyramid of Country Lands in the deepearth, an hundred miles from the base unto the topmost field.And the whole was sheathed-in at the sides with the grey metal of whichthe Redoubt was builded; and each field was pillared, and flooredbeneath the soil, with this same compound of wonder; and so was itsecure, and the monsters could not dig into that mighty garden fromwithout.
And all of that Underground Land was lit, where needed, by theEarth-Current, and that same life-stream fructified the soil, and gavelife and blood to the plants and to the trees, and to every bush andnatural thing.And the making of those Fields had taken maybe a million years, and the[DIALOGUE]"dump" thereof had been cast into the [DIALOGUE]"Crack," whence came theEarth-Current, and which had bottom beyond all soundings. And thisUnderground Country had its own winds and air-currents; so that, to mymemory, it was in no ways connected to the monstrous air-shafts of thePyramid; but in this I may be mistaken; for it has not been given to meto know all that is to be known concerning that vast Redoubt; nor by anyone man could so much knowledge be achieved.Yet that there were wise and justly promoted winds in that UndergroundCountry, I do know; for healthful and sweet they were, and in thecorn-fields there was the sweet rustle of grain, and the glad, silkenlaughter of poppies, all beneath a warm and happy light. And here, did
[FLASHBACK]the millions walk and take excursion, and go orderly or not, even as inthese days.And all this have I seen, and the talk of a thousand lovers in thegardens of that place, comes back to me; and with it all the memory ofmy dear one; and of a faint calling that would seem to whisper about meat times; but so faint and attenuated, that even I, who had theNight-Hearing, could not catch its import; and so went, listening everthe more intently. And oft times calling.Now there was a Law in the Pyramid, tried and healthful, which held thatno male should have freedom to adventure into the Night Land, before theage of twenty-two; _and no female ever_. Yet that, after such age, if a
[DANGER][CONTEXT]youth desired greatly to make the adventure, he should receive threelectures upon the dangers of which we had knowledge, and a strictaccount of the mutilatings and horrid deeds done to those who had soadventured. And if, after this had passed over him, he still desired,and if he were accounted healthful and sane; then should he be allowedto make the adventure; and it was accounted honour to the youth whoshould add to the knowledge of the Pyramid.But to all such as went forth into the danger of the Night Land, therewas set beneath the skin of the inner side of the left forearm, a smallcapsule, and when the wound had healed, then might the youth make theadventure.And the wherefore of this, was that the spirit of the youth might besaved, if he were entrapped; for then, upon the honour of his soul, musthe bite forth the capsule, and immediately his spirit would have safetyin death. And by this shall you know somewhat the grim and horrid danger
[EMOTION][SETTING][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][CONTEXT][METAPHOR][EXPOSITION][PROBLEM][CHARACTERIZATION][CHARACTER][PLOT][SUSPENSE]of the Dark Land.And this I have set down because later I was to make huge adventure intothose Lands; and even at this time, some thought of the same had come tome; for always I went listening for that quiet calling; and twice I sentthe Master-Word throbbing solemnly through the everlasting night; yetthis I did no more, without certainty; for the Word must not be usedlightly. But often would I say with my brain-elements [DIALOGUE]"Mirdath!Mirdath!"--sending the name out into the darkness; and sometimes would Iseem to hear the faint thrilling of the aether around me; as though oneanswered; but weakly, as it were with a weakened spirit, or byinstrument that lacked of its earth-force.And thus, for a great while there was no certainty; but only a strangeanxiousness and no clear answer.
[EMOTION][FLASHBACK]Then, one day as I stood by the instruments in the Tower of Observation,at the thirteenth hour there came the thrilling of beaten aether allabout me, as it were that all the void was disturbed. And I made theSign for Silence; so that the men moved not in all the Tower; but bowedover their breathing-bells, that all disturbance might cease.And again came the gentle thrilling, and broke out into a clear, lowcalling in my brain; and the calling was my name--the old-earth name ofthis day, and not the name of that age. And the name smote me, with afrightenedness of fresh awakening memories. And, immediately, I sent the
[TRANSITION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]Master-Word into the night; and all the aether was full of movement. Anda silence came; and later a beat afar off in the void of night, whichonly I in all that great Redoubt could hear, until the heaviervibrations were come. And in a moment there was all about me thethrobbing of the Master-Word, beating in the night a sure answer. Yet,before this I knew that Mirdath had called; but now had surety.
[SURPRISE]And immediately, I said [DIALOGUE]"Mirdath," making use of the instruments; andthere came a swift and beautiful answer; for out of the dark there stolean old love-name, that she only had ever used to me.And, presently, I minded me of the men, and signed to them that theyshould continue; for the Records must not be broken; and now I had thecommunication full established.And by me stood the Master Monstruwacan, quietly as any youngMonstruwacan, waiting with slips to make any notes that were needful;and keeping a strict eye upon those others; but not unkindly. And so,for a space of wonder, I had speech with that girl out in the darknessof the world, who had knowledge of my name, and of the old-earthlove-name, and named herself Mirdath.
[SURPRISE]And much I questioned her, and presently to my sorrow; for it seemedthat her name was not truly Mirdath; but Naani; neither had she known myname; but that in the library of that place where she abode, there hadbeen a story of one named by my name, and called by that sweet love-namewhich she had sent out somewhat ruthless into the night; and the girl'sname had been Mirdath; and when first she, Naani had called, there hadcome back to her a cry of Mirdath, Mirdath; and this had minded her sostrangely of that olden story which had stayed in her memory; that shehad answered as the maid in that book might have answered.And thus did it seem that the utter Romance of my Memory-love hadvanished, and I stood strangely troubled for sorrow of a love of oldentimes. Yet, even then I marvelled that any book should have story somuch like to mine; not heeding that the history of all love is writ withone pen.Yet, even then in that hour of my strange, and quaintly foolish pain,there came a thing that set me thrilling; though more afterwards, when Icame to think afresh upon it. For the girl who spoke to me through the
[SURPRISE][METAPHOR][PROBLEM]night made some wonder that my voice were not deeper; yet in quietfashion, and as one who says a thing, scarce wotting what they say. Buteven to me then, there came a sudden hope; for in the olden days of thisPresent Age my voice had been very deep. And I said to her that maybethe man in the book was said to have had a deep tone of speech; but she,seeming puzzled, said nay; and at that I questioned her the more; butonly to the trouble of her memory and understanding.And strange must it seem that we two should talk on so trivial a matter,when there was so much else that we had need to exchange thought upon;for were a man in this present day to have speech with those who maylive within that red planet of Mars within the sky, scarce could thewonder of it exceed the wonder of a human voice coming through thatnight unto the Great Redoubt, out of all that lost darkness. For,
[CONFLICT]indeed, this must have been the breaking of, maybe, a million years ofsilence. And already, as I came to know later, was the news passingdownward from City to City through all the vast Pyramid; so that theHour-Slips were full of the news; and every City eager and excited, andwaiting. And I better known in that one moment, than in all my lifebefore. For that previous calling, had been but vaguely put about; andthen set to the count of a nature, blown upon over-easily byspirit-winds of the half-memory of dreams. Though it is indeed true, asI have set down before this, that my tales concerning the early days ofthe world, when the sun was visible, and full of light, had gone downthrough all the cities, and had much comment and setting forth in theHour-Slips, and were a cause for speech and argument.
Now concerning the voice of this girl coming to us through the darknessof the world, I will set out that which she had to tell; and this,indeed, but verified the tellings of our most ancient Records, which hadso long been treated over lightly: There was, it would seem, somewhereout in the lonesome dark of the Outer Lands, but at what distance nonecould ever discover, a second Redoubt; that was a three-sided Pyramid,and moderate small; being no more than a mile in height, and scarcethree quarters of a mile along the bases.When this Redoubt was first builded, it had been upon the far shore of asea, where now was no sea; and it had been raised by those wanderinghumans who had grown weary of wandering, and weary of the danger ofnight attacks by the tribes of half-human monsters which began toinhabit the earth even so early as the days when the half-gloom was uponthe world. And he that had made the plan upon which it was builded, wasone who had seen the Great Redoubt, having lived there in the beginning,but escaped because of a correction set upon him for his spirit ofirresponsibility, which had made him to cause disturbance among theorderly ones in the lowest city of the Great Redoubt.Yet, in time, he too had come to be tamed by the weight of fear of theever-growing hordes of monsters, and the Forces that were abroad. And so
[ACTION][HAUNTED HOUSE]he, being a master-spirit, planned and builded the smaller Redoubt,being aided thereto by four millions, who also were weary of the harassof the monsters; but until then had been wanderers, because of therestlessness of their blood.And they had chosen that place, because there they had discovered a signof the Earth-Current in a great valley which led to the shore; forwithout the Earth-Current no Refuge could have existence. And whilstmany builded and guarded, and cared for the Great Camp in which alllived, others worked within a great shaft; and in ten years had madethis to a distance of many miles, and therewith they tapt theEarth-Current; but not a great stream; yet a sufficiency, as wasbelieved.And, presently, after many years, they had builded the Pyramid, andtaken up their refuge there, and made them instruments, and ordainedMonstruwacans; so that they had speech daily with the Great Pyramid; andthus for many long ages.
[PROBLEM][METAPHOR]And the Earth-Current then to begin to fail; and though they labouredthrough many thousands of years, they came to no better resource. And soit was they ceased to have communication with the Great Redoubt; for thecurrent had a lack of power to work the instruments; and the recordinginstruments ceased to be sensible of our messages.And thereafter came a million years, maybe, of silence; with ever thebirthing and marrying and dying of those lonesome humans. And they grewless; and some put this to the lack of the Earth-Current, which dwindledslowly through the centuries of that Eternity.
And once in a thousand years, maybe, one among them would be Sensitive,and abled to hear beyond ordinary; and to these, at times, there wouldseem to come the thrilling of the aether; so that such an one would golistening; and sometimes seem to catch half messages; and so awaken agreat interest in all the Pyramid; and there would be turning up of oldRecords, and many words and writings, and attempts to send theMaster-Word through the night; in which, doubtless sometimes theysucceeded; for there was set down in the Records of the Great Redoubtcertain occasions on which there had come the call of the Master-Word,which had been arranged and made holy between the two Redoubts in theearly days of that second life of this world.Yet, now for an hundred thousand years, there had been none Sensitive;and in that time the people of the Pyramid had become no more than tenthousand; and the Earth-Current was weak and powerless to put the joy oflife into them; so that they went listlessly, but deemed it not strange,because of so many aeons of usage.And then, to the wonder of all, the Earth-Current had put forth a newpower; so that young people ceased to be old over-soon; and there washappiness and a certain joy in the living; and a strange birthing ofchildren, such as had not been through half a million years.And then came a new thing. Naani, the daughter of the Master
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][DANGER]Monstruwacan of that Redoubt had shown to all that she was Sensitive;for she had perceived odd vibrations afloat in the night; and concerningthese she told her father; and presently, because their blood movedafresh in their bodies, they had heart to discover the plans of theancient instruments; for the instruments had long rusted, and beenforgotten.And so they builded them a new instrument to send forth a message; forthey had no memory at that time that the brain-elements had power to dothus; though, mayhap, their brain-elements were weakened, through somany ages of starvation of the Earth-Current, and could not have obeyed,even had their masters known all that we of the Great Redoubt knew.And when the instrument was finished, to Naani was given the right tocall first across the dark to discover whether indeed, after thatmillion years of silence, they were yet companied upon this earth, orwhether they were in truth lonely--the last poor thousands of theHumans.And a great and painful excitement came upon the people of the lesserpyramid; for the loneliness of the world pressed upon them; and it wasto them as though we in this age called to a star across the abyss ofspace.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][CONFLICT][PERSPECTIVE][PROBLEM][METAPHOR][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][CONTEXT][DANGER][ACTION]And because of the excitement and pain of the moment, Naani called onlyvaguely with the instrument into the dark; and lo! in a moment, as itseemed, there came all about her in the night the solemn throb of theMaster-Word, beating in the night. And Naani cried out that she wasanswered, and, as may be thought, many of the people wept, and someprayed, and some were silent; but others beseeched her that she callagain and quickly to have further speech with those of their kind.And Naani spoke the Master-Word into the night, and directly there camea calling all about her: [DIALOGUE]"Mirdath! Mirdath!" and the strange wonder ofit made her silent a moment; but when she would have made reply, theinstrument had ceased to work, and she could have no further speech atthat time.
[EMOTION][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][METAPHOR]This, as may be thought, occasioned much distress; and constant workthey had between the instrument and the Earth-Current, to discover thereason for this failing; but could not for a great while. And in thattime, oft did Naani hear the call of [DIALOGUE]"Mirdath" thrilling about her; andtwice there came the solemn beat of the Master-Word in the night. Yetnever had she the power to answer. And all that while, as I learned intime, was she stirred with a quaint ache at heart by the voice thatcalled [DIALOGUE]"Mirdath!" as it might be the Spirit of Love, searching for itsmate; for this is how she put it.
[SURPRISE]And thus it chanced, that the constant thrilling of this name about her,woke her to memory of a book she had read in early years, and but halfunderstood; for it was ancient, and writ in an olden fashion, and it setout the love of a man and a maid, and the maid's name was Mirdath. Andso, because she was full of this great awakening of those ages ofsilence, and the calling of that name, she found the book again, andread it many times, and grew to a sound love of the beauty of that tale.And, presently, when the instrument was made right, she called into thenight the name of that man within the book; and so it came about that Ihad hoped too much; yet even now was I strangely unsure whether to ceasefrom hoping.And one other thing there is which I would make clear. Many and oft a
time had I heard a thrilling of sweet, faint laughter about me, and thestirring of the aether by words too gentle to come clearly; and these Imake no doubt came from Naani, using her brain-elements unwittingly andin ignorance; but very eager to answer my callings; and having noknowledge that, far off across the blackness of the world, they thrilledabout me, constantly.And after Naani had made clear all that I have set out concerning theLesser Refuge, she told further how that food was not plentiful withthem; though, until the reawakening of the Earth-Current, they had goneunknowing of this, being of small appetite, and caring little for aught;but now wakened, and newly hungry, they savoured a lack of taste in allthat they ate; and this we could well conceive, from our reasonings andtheory; but happily not from our knowledge.And we said unto them, that the soil had lost its life, and the cropstherefrom were not vital; and a great while it would take for the earthwithin their pyramid to receive back the life-elements. And we told themcertain ways by which they might bring a more speedy life to the soil;and this they were eager to do, being freshly alive after so long a timeof half-life.
[METAPHOR][MONSTER]And now, you must know that in all the great Redoubt the story wentdownwards swiftly, and was published in all the Hour-Sheets, with manycomments; and the libraries were full of those who would look up theolden Records, which for so long had been forgotten, or taken, as we ofthis day would say, with a pinch of salt.And all the time I was pestered with questions; so that, had I not beendetermined, I should scarce have been allowed to sleep; moreover, somuch was writ about me, and my power to hear, and divers storiesconcerning tales of love, that I had been like to have grown mazed totake note of it all; yet some note I did take, and much I foundpleasant; but some displeasing.And, for the rest, I was not spoiled, as the saying goes; for I had mywork to do; moreover, I was always busied Listening, and having speechthrough the darkness. Though if any saw me so, they would question; andbecause of this, I kept much to the Tower of Observation, where was theMaster Monstruwacan, and a greater discipline.
[FLASHBACK][TRANSITION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]And then began a fresh matter; though but an old enough trick; for Ispeak now of the days that followed that re-opening of the talk betweenthe Pyramids. Oft would speech come to us out of the night; and therewould be tales of the sore need of the Lesser Redoubt, and callings forhelp. Yet, when I sent the Master-Word abroad, there would be noanswering. And so I feared that the Monsters and Forces of Evil _knew_.
[DANGER][CONTEXT]Yet, at times, the Master-Word would answer to us, beating steadily inthe night; and when we questioned afresh, we knew that they in theLesser Redoubt had caught the beat of the Master-Word, and so madereply; though it had not been they who had made the previous talk, whichwe had sought to test by the Word. And then they would makecontradiction of all that had been spoken so cunningly; so that we knewthe Monsters and Forces had sought to tempt some from the safety of theRedoubt. Yet, was this no new thing, as I have made to hint; saving thatit grew now to a greater persistence, and there was a loathsome cunningin the using of this new knowledge to the making of wicked and falsemessages by those evil things of the Night Land. And it told to us, as Ihave made remark, how that those Monsters and Forces had a fullawaredness of the speech between the Pyramids; yet could they have nopower to say the Master-Word; so had we some test left, and a way tosure knowledge of what made talk in the night.
And all that I have told should bring to those of this Age something ofthe yet unbegotten terror of that; and a quiet and sound thankfulness toGod, that we suffer not as humanity shall yet suffer.But, for all this, let it not be thought that they of that Age accountedit as suffering; but as no more than the usual of human existence. Andby this may we know that we can meet all circumstances, and useourselves to them and live through them wisely, if we be but prudent andconsider means of invention.And through all the Night Land there was an extraordinary awakeningamong the Monsters and Forces; so that the instruments made constantnote of greater powers at work out there in the darkness; and theMonstruwacans were busied recording, and keeping a very strict watch.
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][FLASHBACK][METAPHOR]And so was there at all that time a sense of difference and awakening,and of wonders about, and to come.And from The Country Whence Comes The Great Laughter, the Laughtersounded constant ... as it were an uncomfortable and heart-shaking
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM]voice-thunder rolling thence over the Lands, out from the unknown East.And the Pit of the Red Smoke filled all the Deep Valley with redness, sothat the smoke rose above the edge, and hid the bases of the Towers uponthe far side.And the Giants could be seen plentiful around the Kilns to the East; andfrom the Kilns great belches of fire; though the meaning of it, as ofall else, we could not say; but only the cause.And from the Mountain Of The Voice, which rose to the South-East of theSouth-East Watcher, and of which I have made no telling hitherto, inthis faulty setting-out, I heard for the first time in that life, thecalling of the Voice. And though the Records made mention of it; yet not
[DANGER][METAPHOR][SURPRISE][CHARACTERIZATION][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][EMOTION][HORROR]often was it heard. And the calling was shrill, and very peculiar anddistressful and horrible; as though a giant-woman, hungering strangely,shouted unknown words across the night. And this was how it seemed tome; and many thought this to describe the sound.And, by all this, may you perceive how that Land was awakened.
And other tricks there were to entice us into the Night Land; and once acall came thrilling in the aether, and told to us that certain humanshad escaped from the Lesser Redoubt, and drew nigh to us; but were faintfor food, and craved succour. Yet, when we sent the Master-Word into thenight, the creatures without could make no reply; which was a very happything for our souls; for we had been all mightily exercised in ourhearts by this one message; and now had proof that it was but a trap.And constantly, and at all hours, I would have speech with Naani of theLesser Redoubt; for I had taught her how she might send her thoughtsthrough the night, with her brain-elements; but not to over-use thispower; for it exhausts the body and the powers of the mind, if it beabused by exceeding usage.Yet, despite that I had taught her the use of her brain-elements, shesent her message always without strength, save when she had use of theinstrument; and this I set to the cause that she had not the healthforce needful; but, apart from this, she had the Night-Hearing verykeen; though less than mine.
[EMOTION][RELIEF][PERSPECTIVE][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK]And so, with many times of speech, and constant tellings of our doingsand thoughts, we drew near in the spirit to one another; and had alwaysa feeling in our hearts that we had been given previous acquaintance.And this, as may be thought, thrilled my heart very strangely.IVTHE HUSHING OF THE VOICE    ("Dearest, thine own feet tread the world at night--        Treading, as moon-flakes step across a dark--      Kissing the very dew to holier light ...
[DANGER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][EMOTION][PROBLEM]        Thy Voice a song past mountains, which to hark      Frightens my soul with an utter lost delight.")Now, one night, towards the end of the sixteenth hour, as I made readyto sleep, there came all about me the thrilling of the aether, ashappened oft in those days; but the thrilling had a strange power in it;and in my soul the voice of Naani sounded plain, all within and aboutme.Yet, though I knew it to be the voice of Naani, I answered notimmediately; save to send the sure question of the Master-Word into thenight. And, directly, I heard the answer, the Master-Word beatingsteadily in the night; and I questioned Naani why she had speech with meby the Instrument at that time, when all were sleeping, and the watchset among the Monstruwacans; for they in the little Pyramid had theirsleep-time to commence at the eleventh hour; so that by this it was fivehours advanced towards the time of waking; and Naani should have slept;nor have been abroad to the Tower of Observation, apart from her father.
[FLASHBACK][EMOTION][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][TRANSITION][METAPHOR][CHARACTERIZATION][DEATH][EXPOSITION]For I supposed that she spoke by the Instrument, her voice sounding veryclear in my brain. Yet, to this question, she made no answer in kind;but gave a certain thing into my spirit, which set me trembling; for shesaid certain words, that began:[DIALOGUE]"Dearest, thine own feet tread the world at night--"And it well may be that she set me to tremble; for as the words grewabout me, there wakened a memory-dream how that I had made these samewords to Mirdath the Beautiful in the long-gone Eternity of this ourAge, when she had died and left me alone in all the world. And I wasweak a little with the tumult and force of my emotion; but in a moment Icalled eagerly with my brain-elements to Naani to give some explainingof this thing that she had spoken to the utter troubling of my heart.Yet, once more she made no direct answer; but spoke the words again tome across all the dark of the world. And it came to me suddenly, that it
was not Naani that spoke; but Mirdath the Beautiful, from out of all theeverlasting night. And I called: [DIALOGUE]"Mirdath! Mirdath," with mybrain-elements, into the night; and lo! the far, faint voice spoke againto my spirit through all the darkness of eternity, saying again thosewords. Yet, though the voice was the voice of Mirdath the Beautiful, itwas also the voice of Naani; and I knew in all my heart that this thingwas in verity; and that it had been given to me to be birthed once moreinto this world in the living-time of that Only One, with whom my spiritand essence hath mated in all ages through the everlasting. And I called
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][GHOST]with my brain-elements and all my strength to Naani; but there came noanswer; neither sign of hearing, though through hours I called.And thus at last I came to an utter exhaustion; but neither could bequiet, nor sleep. Yet, presently, I slept.And when I waked, my first memory was of the wondrous thing which hadbefallen in the sleep-time; for none in all this world could have knownthose words; save it had been the spirit of Mirdath, my Beautiful One,looking from above my shoulder in that utter-lost time, as I made thosewords to her, out of an aching and a broken heart. And the voice had
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][CONFLICT]been the voice of Mirdath; and the voice of Mirdath had been the voiceof Naani. And what shall any say to this, save that which I had in myheart.And immediately I called to Naani, once, and again twice; and in alittle moment there came all about me the throbbing of the Master-Word,beating solemnly in the night; and I sent the Master-Word to giveassurance, and immediately the voice of Naani, a little weak as was italways when she had not the Instrument, but sent the message with herbrain-elements.And I answered her, and questioned her eagerly concerning her sayings ofthe past time of sleep; but she disclaimed, and made clear to me thatshe had no knowledge of having spoken; but had slept through all thattime of which I made to tell; and, indeed, had dreamed a very strangedream.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION]And for a little while I was confused, and meditated, not knowing whatto think; but came suddenly again to a knowledge that Naani's far voicewas thrilling the aether all about; and that she would tell to me herdream; which had set strong upon her mind.And she told the dream to me, and in the dream she had seen a tall, darkman, built very big, and dressed in unfamiliar clothing. And the man hadbeen in a little room, and very sorrowful, and lonesome; and in herdream she had gone nigh to him.And presently the man made to write, that he might ease him by givingexpression to his sorrow; and Naani had been able to read the words thathe wrote; though to her waking spirit the language in which they werewrit was strange and unknown. Yet she could not remember what he had
[EMOTION][HORROR]writ, save but one short line, and this she had mind of in that he hadwrit the word Mirdath above. And she spoke of the strangeness of thisthing, that she should dream of this name; but supposed that I had fixedit upon her, by my first callings.And then did I, with something of a tremble in my spirit, ask Naani totell me what she remembered of the writing of that big, sorrowfulstranger. And, in a little moment, her far voice said these words allabout me:    [DIALOGUE]"Dearest, thine own feet tread the world at night--"But no more had she memory of. Yet it was a sufficiency, and I, maybe
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][FLASHBACK][TRANSITION][DANGER][CONFLICT][HORROR]with a mad, strange triumph in my soul, said unto her with mybrain-elements that which remained of those words. And my spirit feltthem strike upon the spirit of Naani, and awake her memory, as with theviolence of a blow. And for a little while she stumbled, dumb before somuch newness and certainly. And her spirit then to waken, and she nearwept with the fright and the sudden, new wonder of this thing.
And immediately, all about me there came her voice thrilling, and thevoice was the voice of Mirdath, and the voice of Naani; and I heard thetears of her spirit make pure and wonderful the bewildered and growinggladness of her far voice. And she asked me, as one who had suddenlyopened the Gates of Memory, whether she might be truly Mirdath. And I,utter weak and shaken strangely because of this splendour of fulfilment,could make no instant answer. And she asked again, but using mine oldlove-name, and with a sureness in her far voice. And still I was so
[FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR]strangely dumb, and the blood to thud peculiar in mine ears; and this topass; and speech to come swift.And this way to be that meeting of our spirits, across all theeverlasting night.And you shall have for a memory-picture, how that Naani stood there inthe world in that far eternity, and, with her spirit having speech withmine, looked back through the part-opened gates of her memory, into thepast of this our life and Age. Yet more than this she saw, and more thanwas given to me in that Age; for she had memory now and sight of otherinstances, and of other comings together, which had some confusion andbut half-meanings to me. Yet of this our present Age and life, we spoke
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM]as of some yesterday; but very hallowed.Now, as may be conceived, the wonder of this surety which had come intomy life stirred me fiercely to its completion; for all my heart andspirit cried out to be with that one who was Mirdath, and now spoke withthe voice of Naani.Yet, how should this be won; for none among all the learned men of thatMighty Pyramid knew the position of the Lesser Redoubt; neither couldthe Records and Histories of the World give us that knowledge; only thatthere was a general thought among the Students and the Monstruwacansthat it lay between the North-West and the North-East. But no man hadany surety; neither could any conceive of the distance from us of thatRefuge.
[DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]And counting all this, there was yet the incredible danger and peril ofthe Night Land, and the hunger and desolation of the Outer Lands, whichwere sometimes named the Unknown Lands.And I spoke much with Naani concerning this matter of their position;yet neither she nor her father, the Master Monstruwacan of that Refuge,had any knowing either of our position; only that the Builder of theLesser Redoubt had come out of the Southward World in the Beginning, asthey had knowledge of by the Records.Also, the father of Naani set that ancient Compass to bear; for, as hemade explanation to us through the Instrument, so great a power of theEarth-Current must be ours that, perchance it was our force which didaffect the pointer from steadfastness. For, indeed, the needle did swingin an arc, as we heard, that held between the North and the South;within the Westward arc; but this it had done ever with them, and so wasa very helpless guide; save that, maybe, as we had thought, the force ofthe Earth-Current that was with us, had in truth some power to pull theneedle towards us. And if this were so of verity, we made a reckoning
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION]that set the Lesser Redoubt to the North; and they did likewise, and putus to the South; yet was it all built upon the sand of guess-work; andnothing to adventure the life and soul upon.Now we, of curiosity; though a million times had it been done in thepast ages, set the compass before us, having it from the Great Museum.But, as ever in that age, it did spin if we but stirred the needle, andwould stop nowheres with surety, for the flow of the Earth-Current fromthe [DIALOGUE]"Crack" beneath the Pyramid had a power to affect it away from theNorth, and to set it wandering. And this may seem very strange to thispresent Age; yet to that, it was most true to the seeming nature ofthings; and harder to believe that ever it did once point steadfastly,to prove a guide of sureness, and unfailing.
For, be it known, we knew the positions of the Land by tradition, comingfrom that ancient time when, in the Half-Gloom they had builded thePyramid; they having known the use of that ancient compass, and withsight of the Sun had named the Positions; though we of that far futureday had forgotten the very beginnings of those Names of Direction; andused them but because our fathers did a million years and more. Andlikewise we did the same with the names of the day and the night and theweeks and the months and the years; though of the visible markings ofthese there was nothing but only and always the everlasting night; yetthe same seeming very natural to that people.Now, Naani, having heed to my constant questions, craved with an utterkeen hunger that I might come to her; but yet forbade it, in that itwere better to live and commune in the spirit, than to risk my soul, andmayhaps die, in the foolishness of trying to find her in all thedarkness of the dead world. Yet, no heed had I taken of her commands,had I but known of a surety the _direction_ in which she might bediscovered; and gained some knowledge of the space between, for thismight be named by thousands of miles, or but by hundreds; though a greatdistance it was surely.
[SURPRISE][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION][PROBLEM][TRANSITION][METAPHOR][SETTING][CHARACTERIZATION][PLOT][EXPOSITION][CONFLICT][MONSTER]Yet, one other thing there was, that has point in this place; for when Isent my speech out into the night, using my brain-elements, I came toknow that, whether I had a knowledge of the North, or no knowledge atthe moment, yet did I turn oft with a sure instinction to thatDirection. And of this, the Master Monstruwacan took very great note,and had me to experiment many a time and way, and so enclosed about withscreens, or with bandages across mine eyes, that I could not, save bythat inward Knowing, have any knowledge to point me the way. Yet would Iturn Northwards very frequent, by a certain feeling; and seemed unableof speech, if I were turned otherwise by force.But when we asked Naani whether she had an unusualness in this matter,she could discover none; and we could but take note curiously of thatwhich affected my habits; and which truly I set to the attracting of herspirit; for I had mind that she did be somewheres out that way in thedarkness of the world; but yet was this no more than to suppose, as youperceive.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][MONSTER]And the Master Monstruwacan wrote a study of this matter of theNorthwardness of my turning; and it was set out in the Hour-Slips of theTower of Observation; and so it came to be copied by the Hour-Slips ofthe great cities, and made much comment, and much calling up to methrough the home instruments; so that with this, and the speech thatwent about concerning my powers to hear, I was much in talk, anddiversely pleased and oft angered by overmuch attention and importunity.And now, whilst I pondered this matter in all my spirit and being, howthat I should some way come to Naani, there befell a very terriblething. And in this wise must I tell it:It was at the seventeenth hour, when all the millions of the MightyPyramid slept, that I was with the Master Monstruwacan in the Tower ofObservation taking my due turn. And sudden, I heard the thrilling of theaether all about me, and the voice of Naani in my soul, speaking. And I
[EMOTION][DANGER][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK]sent the Master-Word into the darkness of the world, and presently, Iheard the solemn answer beating steadfastly in the night; andimmediately I called to Naani with my brain-elements, to know what thingtroubled her in her sleep.And her voice came into my spirit, weak and far and faint, and so thatscarce I could make to hear the words. Yet, in a while I gathered thatall the peoples of the Lesser Redoubt were in very deadly trouble; forthat the Earth-Current had failed suddenly and mightily; and they hadcalled her from her sleep, that she might listen whether we answeredtheir callings by the Instrument; but, indeed, no calling had come tous.And they who had been of late so joyful, were now grown old with sorrowin but an hour or two; for they feared that the fresh coming of theEarth-Current had been but the final flicker and outburst before theend. And, even in this short while of our speech, did it seem to me that
the voice of Naani grew further off from me; and I felt like to havebroken my heart with the trouble of this thing.And through all that remained of that sleep-time, did I converse withNaani, as might two lovers who shall presently part forever. And whenthe cities awoke, the news went throughout them, and all our millionswere in sorrow and trouble.And thus was it for, maybe, a little month; and in that time had thevoice of Naani grown so weak and far-off that even I that had theNight-Hearing, could scarce make real its meaning. And every word was to
me a treasure and a touch upon my soul; and my grief and trouble beforethis certain parting drove me that I could not eat, neither have rest;and this did the Master Monstruwacan take upon him to chide and correct;for that, if any were to help, how should it be done if I that had theNight-Hearing, and heard even now that the recording Instruments weredumb, came to ill-health.And because of this, and such wisdom as was mine, I made to eat andorder my life that I might have my full powers. Yet was this beyond allmy strength; for, presently, I knew that the people of the LesserPyramid were threatened by the monsters that beset them; and later I hadknowledge from faint, far words whispered in my brain, that there hadbeen a fight with an outside Force that had harmed many in their minds;so that in madness they had opened the gate and had run from the LesserPyramid, out into the darkness of the Lands about them; and there hadtheir physical bodies fallen to the monsters of those Lands; but oftheir souls who may know?And this, we set assuredly to the failure of the Earth-Current, whichhad robbed them of all force and power; so that, in those few weeks alllife and joy of living had left them; and neither hunger nor thirst hadthey, much, nor any great desire to live; but yet a new and mighty fearof death. And this doth seem very strange.
And, as may be thought, all this made the Peoples of the Great Redoubtthink newly of the Earth-Current that issued from the [DIALOGUE]"Crack" beneaththe Pyramid; and of their latter end; so that much was writ in theHour-Slips concerning this matter; yet in the main to assure us that weourselves might each be free from a disturbed heart; though some wentfoolishly to the other event, and spoke of a speedy danger to us,likewise; as is ever the way. But the truth of our own case lay, maybe,somewhere between.And all the Hour-Slips were full also of imaginings of the terror ofthose poor humans out in the darkness of the world, facing that endwhich must come upon all, even upon our mighty Pyramid; though, as mostwould believe, so far away in some future eternity, that we have nocause to trouble.And there were sad poems writ to the peoples of that Lesser Redoubt, andfoolish plans set about to rescue them; but none to put them to effect;and no way by which so great a thing might be done; and doth but showhow loosely people will speak out of an over-security. Yet to me, there
[MONSTER]had come a certain knowledge that I must make the adventure, though Iachieved naught save mine own end. Yet, it were better to cease quickly,than that I should feel, as now I did feel.That same night, in the Eighteenth Hour, there was a great disturbancein the aether about the Mighty Pyramid; and I was awakened suddenly bythe Master Monstruwacan; that I might use my gift of the Night-Hearingto hearken for the throbbing of the Master-Word, which they had thoughtto come vaguely through the Instruments; but no one of the Monstruwacanswas sensitive enough of soul to account truly whether this was so.And lo! as I sat up in the bed, there came the sound of the Master-Word,
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]beating in the night about the Pyramid. And immediately there was acrying in the aether all about me: [DIALOGUE]"We are coming! We are coming!"And mine inwards leaped and sickened me a moment, so shaken was I with asudden belief; for the message seemed some ways to come to me from verynear to the Great Redoubt; as that they who sent it were nigh to hand.And, forthwith, I called the Master-Word into the night; but no answerdid there come for a while, and then a faint thrilling of the aetherabout me, and the weak pulse of the Master-Word in the night, sent by afar voice, strangely distant. And I knew that the voice was the voice ofNaani; and I put a question through all the darkness of the dead world,whether she were within the Lesser Redoubt, and safe thus far.
And presently, there came a faint disturbance about me, and a smallvoice in my soul, speaking weakly and out of an infinite distance; and Iknew that far away through the night Naani spoke feebly, with herbrain-elements; and that she abode within the Lesser Pyramid; but thatshe too had heard that strange pulse of the Master-Word in the night,and that message: [DIALOGUE]"We are coming! We are coming!" And vastly had thisthing disturbed her, waking her within her sleep; so that she knew notwhat to think; save that we were devising some method to come to them.But this I removed from doubt, saying that she must not build on vainhoping; for I would not have her doubly tortured by the vanity of suchbelieving. And, thereafter, having said such things as I might, thoughfew they were, to comfort her, I bade her, gently, to sleep; and turnedtherewith to the Master Monstruwacan, who waited in quiet patience; andhad no knowledge of that which I had heard and sent; for his hearing wasbut the normal; though his brain and heart were such as made me to lovehim.And I told the Master Monstruwacan many things as I put my clothingabout me; how that there had indeed been the calling of the Master-Word;but not by any of that Lesser Redoubt; but that, to my belief, it hadcome from nigh about the Great Pyramid. Moreover, it was sent by no
[EMOTION]instrument; as I wotted that he did guess; but, as it seemed to me, bythe brain-elements of many, calling in unison.And all this did I set out to the Master Monstruwacan; and withsomething uncertain of fear and trouble in my heart; yet with a blindexpectation; as, indeed, who would not. Though, no longer was I shakenby that first thought of Her nearness.And I said to the Master Monstruwacan that we should go to the Tower ofObservation, and search the Night Lands with the great spy-glass.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][DANGER][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][METAPHOR][ACTION][TRANSITION][MONSTER]And we did this, and lo! presently, we saw a great number of men passover the Electric Circle that went about the Pyramid; yet they came not_to_ us; but went outwards towards the blackness and the strange firesand hideous mysteries of the Night Land. And we ceased from spying, andlooked swiftly at one another, and knew in our hearts that some had leftthe Mighty Pyramid in the Sleep-Time.Then the Master Monstruwacan sent word to the Master Watchman that hiswardership had been outraged, and that people left the great Pyramid inthe Sleep-Time; for this was against the Law; and none ever went outinto the Night Land, save the Full Watch were posted to the Great Door;and at a due time, when all were wakeful; for the Opening Of The Doorwas made known to all the Millions of the Great Redoubt; so that allmight be aware; and know that no foolishness was done without theirwotting.
[WEAPON]Moreover, ere any had power to leave the Pyramid, they must pass TheExamination, and Be Prepared; and some of this have I set out already.And so stern was the framing of the Law, that there were yet the metalpegs upon the inner side of the Great Gate, where had been stretched theskin of one who disobeyed; and was flayed and his hide set there to be awarning in the Early Days. Yet the tradition was remembered; for, as Imight say it, we lived very close about the place; and Memory had noroom whereby she might escape.Now the Master Watchman, when he heard that which the MasterMonstruwacan had to tell, went hastily with some of the Central Watchfrom the Watch-Dome, to the Great Gate; and he found the men of theSleep-Time Watch, with the Warder of the Gate, all bound, and stopt inthe mouth, so that none could make outcry.
And he freed them, and learned that nigh five hundred young men, fromthe Upper Cities, by the bigness of their chests, had come upon themsuddenly, and bound them, and escaped into the night through theEye-Gate in the top of the Great Gate.And the Master Watchman was angry, and demanded why that none had calledby the instruments of the Watch House; but lo! some had made to callthus, and found them unable to wake the recorders which lay in thecentral Watch-Dome; for there had been tampering.Now, after this, they made certain new rules and Laws concerning theorder of Watching, and made tests of the lesser instruments of theinward Pyramid, nightly, upon the coming of the Sleep-Time, which was,even in that strange age, by tradition called the Night, as I have givenhint; though hitherto, until the way of my story was known, I have useda word for the sleep hours that was yet not of that time; but somewhatan invention to make this history free from the confusion of [DIALOGUE]"night" and[DIALOGUE]"day," when, in truth, it was always night without upon the world. Yet,
after this, shall I keep to mine use the luxury of the true names ofthat time; and yet, how strange is it that the truth should be of solittle to our thinking.And so to go forward with my telling; for, though all this care were nowtaken, it had no force until afterward; and at this moment were thosepoor foolish youths out in all the danger of the Night Land, and no wayby which they might be succoured, or called back; save that Fear orWisdom should come to them quickly, that they cease from so wild anattempt. For it was to make rescue of those in that other, unknownPyramid, out in all the darkness of the World's Night that was theirintent, as we had speedy knowledge from those boon friends that had beenin the secret of their plot, which had seemed to them great and heroic;and was so, in verity, but that neither they who went, nor they whostayed, had a true awaredness of the danger they had dealing with, beingall naught but raw and crude youths; yet, doubtless, with the makings ofmany fine and great men among them.And because some had thus abetted that which they knew to be against theLaw, which was framed to the well-being and safety of all, there werecertain floggings, which might the better help their memories in thefuture as to the properness of their actions and wisdom.
Moreover, they who returned, if any, would be flogged, as seemed proper,after due examination. And though the news of their beatings might helpall others to hesitation, ere they did foolishly, in like fashion, yetwas the principle of the flogging not on this base, which would be bothimproper and unjust; but only that the one in question be corrected tothe best advantage for his own well-being; for it is not meet that anyprinciple of correction should shape to the making of human signposts ofpain for the benefit of others; for in verity, this were to make one paythe cost of many's learning; and each should owe to pay only so much asshall suffice for the teaching of his own body and spirit. And if othersprofit thereby, this is but accident, however helpful. And this iswisdom, and denoteth now that a sound Principle shall prevent Practicefrom becoming monstrous.
Yet, now I must hasten that I set down how it fared with those fivehundred youths that had made so sad an adventure of their lives andunprepared souls; and were beyond our aid to help them, who might notso much as make any calling to them, to bid them to return; for to dothis would have been to tell to all the Monsters of the Land that humanswere abroad from the Mighty Pyramid.And this would have been to cause the monsters to search the youths outto their destruction, and maybe even to awaken the Forces to work themsome dread Spiritual harm, which was the chief Fear.Now, presently, through all the cities of the Great Redoubt, the newshad gone how that five hundred foolish Youths had adventured out intothe despair of the Night Land; and the whole Pyramid waked to life, andthe Peoples of the South came to the Northern sides, for the Great Gatelay in the North-West side; and the Youths had made from there, notstraightly outwards, but towards the North; and so were to be seen fromthe North-East embrasures, and from those within the North-West wall.And thus, in a while were they watched by all the mighty multitudes ofthe Great Pyramid, through millions of spy-glasses; for each human had aspying-glass, as may be thought; and some were an hundred years old, andsome, maybe ten thousand, and handed down through many generations; andsome but newly made, and very strange. But all those people had some
instrument by which they might spy out upon the wonder of the NightLand; for so had it been ever through all the eternity of darkness, anda great diversion and wonder of life was it to behold the monsters abouttheir work; and to know that they plotted always to our destruction; yetwere ever foiled.And never did all that great and terrible Land grow stale upon the soulof any, from birth until death; and by this you shall know the constantwonder of it, and that _sense of enemies in the night about us,_ whichever filled the heart and spirit of all Beholders; so that never werethe embrasures utterly empty.Yet, many beheld not the Land from the embrasures; but sat about theView-Tables, which were set properly in certain places throughout thecities, and so beheld the Night Land, without undue cranings, or poisingof spy-glasses, though less plain-seen. And these same tables were someform of that which we of this age name Camera Obscura; but made verygreat, and with inventions, and low to the floor, so that ten thousandpeople might sit about them in the raised galleries, and havecomfortable sight. Yet this attracted not the young people, save they
[METAPHOR][PROBLEM][CONFLICT]were lovers; and then, in truth, were they comfortable seats forquietness and gentle whisperings.Yet now, as may be supposed, with all the Peoples of the Mighty Pyramidgrown eager to look towards one part of the Night Land, the embrasureswere hid in the crowds; and such as could gain no view therethrough,thronged about the View-Tables. And so was it in all the hours ofleisure; so that women had scarce patience to attend their children; butmust hasten to watch again, that lonesome band of foolish youths makingso blind and unshaped a trial to come upon that unknown Lesser Redoubt,somewhere out in all the night of the world.And in this wise passed three days and nights; yet both in thesleep-time and the time of waking did great multitudes cease not towatch; so that many went hungry for sleep, as in truth did I. And
[TRANSITION][MONSTER]sometimes we saw those Youths with plainness; but other times they werelost to our sight in the utter shadows of the Night Land. Yet, by thetelling of our instruments, and the sense of my hearing, there was noawaredness among the Monsters, and the Forces of Evil, that any wereabroad from the Pyramid; so that a little hope came into our hearts thatyet there might be no tragedy.And times, would they cease from their way, and sit about in circlesamong the shadows and the grey moss-bushes, which grew hardly here orthere about. And we knew that they had food with them to eat; for thiscould we see with plainness, as some odd, grim flare of light from theinfernal fires struck upon one or another strangely, and passed, andleft them in the darkness.
[WEAPON]And who of you shall conceive what was in the hearts of the fathers, andthe mothers that bore the youths, and who never ceased away from theNorthward embrasures; but spied out in terror and in tears, and maybeoft with so good glasses as did show them the very features and lookupon the face of son and son.And the kin of the watchers brought to them food, and tended them, sothat they had no need to cease from their watching; and beds were madein the embrasures, rough and resourceful, that they might sleep quicklya little; yet be ever ready, if those cruel Monsters without madediscovery of those their children.Thrice in those three days of journeying to the Northward, did theYouths sleep, and we perceived that some kept a watch, and so knew thatthere was a kind of order and leadership among them; also, they had eachhis weapon upon his hip, and this gave to us a further plea to hope.And concerning this same carrying of weapons, I can but set out herethat no healthful male or female in all the Mighty Pyramid but possessedsuch a weapon, and was trained to it from childhood; so that a ripe andextraordinary skill in the use thereof was common to most. Yet some
[WEAPON][MONSTER]breaking of Rule had there been, that the Youths had each achieved to bearmed; for the weapons were stored in every tenth house of the cities,in the care of the charging-masters.And here I must make known that these weapons did not shoot; but had adisk of grey metal, sharp and wonderful, that spun in the end of a rodof grey metal, and were someways charged by the Earth-Current, so thatwere any but stricken thereby, they were cut in twain so easy as aught.And the weapons were contrived to the repelling of any Army of Monstersthat might make to win entrance to the Redoubt. And to the eye they hadsomewhat the look of strange battle-axes, and might be lengthened by thepulling out of the handles.
Now, the Youths made, as I have told, to the Northward; but had first tokeep a long way to the North-East, that they might come clear of theVale of Red Fire. And this wise they journeyed, and kept the Vale aboutseven miles to the North-West of them, and so were presently beyond theWatcher of the North-East, and going with a greater freedom, and havingless care to hide.And this way, it may be, certain of the giants, wandering, perceivedthem, and went swiftly to make attack and destroy them. But some orderwent about among the youths, and they made a long line, with a certainspace between each, because of the terror of their weapon, andimmediately, it seemed, the Giants were upon them, a score and seventhey were, and seeming to be haired like to mighty crabs, as I saw withthe Great Spy-Glass, when the great flares of far and mighty fires threwtheir fierce light across the Dark Lands.
And there was a very great and horrid fight; for the Youths broke intocircles about each of the Giants, and many of those young men were tornin pieces; but they smote the Monsters from behind and upon every side,and we of the Mighty Pyramid could behold at times the grey, strangegleam of their weapons; and the jether was stirred about me by thepassing of those that died; yet, by reason of the great miles, theirscreams came not to us, neither heard we the roars of the Monsters; butinto our hearts, even from that great distance and safety, there stolethe terror of those awesome Brutes; and in the Great Spy-Glass I couldbehold the great joints and limbs and e'en, I thought, the foul sweat ofthem; and their size and brutishness was like to that of odd andmonstrous animals of the olden world; yet part human. And it must beborne to mind that the Fathers and the Mothers of those Youths beheldall this dread fight from the embrasures, and their other kin likewisewatched, and a very drear sight was it to their hearts and their human,natural feelings, and like to breed old age, ere its due.Then, in a time, the fight ceased; for of those seven and twenty GiantBrutes there remained none; only that there cumbered the ground sevenand twenty lumbering hillocks, dreadful and grim. For the lesser dead wecould not see proper.
And we that were within the Pyramid saw the Youths sorted together bytheir leaders, all in the dim twilight of that place; and with the GreatSpy-Glass I made a rough count, and found that there lived of them,three hundred; and by this shall you know the power of those fewmonstrous things, which had slain full two hundred, though each youthwas armed with so wondrous a weapon. And I set the word through thePyramid, that all might have some knowledge of the number that haddied; for it was better to know, than to be in doubt. And no spy-glasshad the power of The Great Spy-Glass.After this fight, the youths spent a time having a care to their bodiesand wounds; and some were made separate from the others, and of these Icounted upon fifty; and whilst the others made to continue their marchtowards the Road Where The Silent Ones Walk, these were constrained byone who was the Leader, to return to the Pyramid. And in a little, I saw
[CONFLICT][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][EMOTION]that they came towards us, wearily and with many a halt, as that theysuffered great wounds and harm of the fight.But those others (maybe two hundred and fifty Youths) went onwards intothe Night Land; and though we sorrowed at this thing; yet was there comea huge pride into our hearts that those raw ones, who yesterday were butchildren, had so held themselves in the battle, and done a great deedthat day. And I wot that whilst their mothers wept, easeless, theirfathers' hearts swelled within them, and held somewhat of their Painaway from them for a time.And all this while, those wounded Youths came slowly, and rested, andcame on again, the better helping the worse; and a great excitement andtrouble there was in all the Mighty Pyramid, to learn which were theythat came, and they that went, and who lay out there quietly among theslain. But none might say anything with surety; for, even with that
[PROBLEM]great spy-glass in the Tower of Observation, they were not overplain;save when some light from the fires of the Land flared high, and litthem. For they stood not up into the glare of the fires, as had theGiants. And though I saw them with clearness, yet I knew them not; forthere was so mighty a multitude in that Vast Redoubt, that none mightever know the half even of their rulers.And about this time, there came a fresh matter of trouble to our minds;for one of the Monstruwacans made report that the instruments wererecording an influence abroad in the night; so that we had knowledgethat one of the Evil Forces was Out. And to me there came an awaredness
[HORROR]that a strange unquiet stole over the Land; yet I knew it not with mineears; but my spirit heard, and it was as though trouble and anexpectation of horror did swarm about me.And once, listening, I heard the Master-Word beating strangely low, andI knew the aether to thrill about me, and a faint stirring was there inmy soul, as of a faint voice, speaking; and I knew that Naani called tome some message across the night of the world; yet weak and comingwithout clear meaning; so that I was tormented and could but sendcomfort to her, with my brain-elements. And presently I knew that sheceased to speak.And, later, I heard that there was a new matter forward in the Redoubt;for ten thousand men had assembled to attend the Room of Preparationfor the Short Preparation; and by this we knew that those poor Youthswho stumbled towards us through the dark, were presently to have help.
And through all that Sleep-Time, there went forward the Spiritual andthe Physical Preparation of the ten thousand; and upon the morrow theyslept, whilst an hundred thousand made ready their arms.And in this space of time the two hundred and fifty Youths that wenttowards the Road Where The Silent Ones Walk, had come very nigh thereto;having gone very warily and with some slowness, because, as may be, ofthe lesson of the Giants.And to us in the Pyramid, the instruments made known constantly thatInfluence which was abroad, and which all those of the Tower ofObservation thought to proceed from the House of Silence. Yet, nothingcould we see with the Great Spy-Glass, and so could come to no sureknowing; but only to fear and wonder.And, presently, the Youths were upon the Great Road, and turned to theNorthward. And beyond them, a great way, stood the House of Silence,
[WEAPON]upon a low hill at a certain distance to the right of the Road.By now, they that were wounded had come to within, maybe, fifteen milesof the Great Redoubt; and the news went through all the Cities, that theten thousand men that were Prepared, made to arm themselves. And I wentdown by the Tower Lift, and saw them come down by thousands from theRoom of Preparation; and none might go nigh to them, or cause them tospeak; for they were made Ready, and were, as it might be, holy.And all the millions of the Mighty Pyramid stood in their cities aboutcertain of the Main Lifts, and watched those thousands go downwards, allin their armour of grey metal, and each one armed with the Diskos, whichwas that same very terrible weapon, which all had training to.
And I doubt not but that the Young Men of the Pyramid looked, withlonging in their hearts, that they might have been among those that wentforth to succour. Yet, the older men had graver thoughts in theirhearts; for the blood ran more soberly in them, and they had knowledgeand memory of the Peril. And by this, I would make clear that I speakless of the peril of the body, which is common to every state of life;but of the peril of the spirit.And it may be thought by those of this age, that it was most strangethat they of that, having all the knowledge of eternity to aid them, hadno weapon by which to shoot, and kill at a distance.
But, indeed, this had not been so in the past; as our Histories didshow; for some wondrous weapons there had been, that might slay withoutsound or flash at a full score miles and more; and some we had wholewithin the Great Museum; and of others but the parts in decay; for theyhad been foolish things, and reckless to use; for we of that GreatPyramid, wanted not to kill a few of the Monsters that lay at a greatdistance; but only those which came nigh, to harm us.And concerning those same weapons that killed silently at a greatdistance, we had now little knowledge, save that they did waste theEarth-Current; and no practice had we concerning their workings; for itwas, maybe, an hundred thousand years gone that they had been used, andfound to be of no great worth in a close attack, and harmful otherwiseto the peace, in that they angered, unneedful, the Forces of that land,slaying wantonly those monsters which did no more than beset the MightyRedoubt at a great distance. For, as may be seen by a little thought, wedid very gladly keep a reasonable quietness, and refrained from aughtthat should wake that Land; for we were born to the custom of thatstrange life, and lived and died in peace, for the most part; and werevery content to have security, and to be neutral in all things that didnot overbear us; but, as it were, always armed, and ready.But concerning the great and Evil Forces that were abroad in the NightLand, these we had no power to harm; nor could we hope for more thanthat we had security from them, which indeed we had; but the hugeness oftheir power was about us, and we dared not to wake it; save through suchextremity as had come to pass by this folly of the Youths; though, evennow, we had no thought to attack aught; but only to succour thosewounded ones.
[WEAPON][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]And concerning this simplicity of weapons, which excites somewhat evenmy wonder in this our present age, it may be that the powers ofchemistry were someways quaintly limited by conditions in that age; andthere to be always a need to spare the Earth-Current; and hence, by thiscause and by that, we were brought, by the extreme, nigh to thesimplicity of the early world; yet with a strange and mighty difference,as all may know who have read.Now, presently, the Word was sent to every City throughout the GreatRedoubt--as was the Law--that the Great Gate should be opened; and eachcity sent its Master, to form the Full Watch, as was the Law. And eachwent clad in grey armour, and carrying the Diskos. And the Full Watchnumbered, two thousand; for there were also the Watchmen.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][SURPRISE]Then the lights in the Great Causeway were made dim; so that the openingof the Gate should cast no great glare from within into the Night Land,to tell the Watcher of the North-West, and all the Monsters, thatcertain humans went out from the Mighty Pyramid. But whether the vastand hidden Forces of Evil had knowledge, we knew not; and they who wentmust but chance it, remembering that they were Prepared, and had theCapsule.And the ten thousand that were Prepared, went out through the GreatGateway, into the night; and the Full Watch stood back from them, andspoke no word, but saluted silently with the Diskos; and they that went,raised each the Diskos a little, and passed out into the dark.Then the Great Gate was shut; and we made to wait and to watch, withtrouble and expectation within our hearts. And at the embrasures many
[TRANSITION]did comfort the women of those men.And I went back, upwards by miles, until I came to the Tower ofObservation; and I looked out from there into the Night Land, and sawthat the ten thousand halted at the Circle, and made arrangement ofthemselves, and sent some before and upon either hand, and so wentforward into the Night Land.And after that, I went to the Great Spy-Glass, and turned it towards thetwo hundred and fifty Youths that were far off, upon the Road Where TheSilent Ones Walk; yet for awhile I could not perceive them, for all theRoad seemed empty. But afterward I saw them, and they were clamberingback into the Road, having gone aside, as I thought, because of thepassing of one of those Silent Ones, that I saw now at a distance to theSouthward of them.
[CONFLICT][TRANSITION][EMOTION][ACTION][DANGER]There passed then, some three hours; and in that time I varied mywatching between those far-off Youths, and the Ten-thousand that wentforward to succour the wounded, that were now, maybe, scarce nine milesdistant from the Mighty Pyramid, and the Ten-thousand came very close tothem. And, in truth, in a little while, they spied one the other, and Igathered, in spirit, something of the rejoicing of those youths; yetweak and troubled were they, because of their wounds, and theirknowledge of failure, and their disobedience of the Law.And, presently, they were surrounded by the Ten-thousand, and carriedupon slings; and all that body swung round towards the Pyramid, and cameback at a great pace.And, in the same time, I heard the sound that made them so swift tohasten; for there smote up through the night the Baying of the Hounds;and we knew that they were discovered. And I swept the Great Spy-Glass
[DANGER]over the Land, towards the Valley Of The Hounds, that I might discoverthem quickly; and I saw them come lumbering, at a strange gallop, andgreat as horses, and it might be only ten miles to the East.And I looked once upon the Watcher of the North-East, and I saw andmarvelled that the great bell-ear quivered constantly; and I knew thatit had knowledge, and gave signal to all the Land. Then did one of theMonstruwacans report that a new and terrible Influence was abroad in theLand; and by the instrument, we had knowledge that it approached; andsome of the Monstruwacans called foolishly with weak voices to theTen-thousand to haste; forgetting, and desiring only their safety fromthat which came near.Then, looking with the Great Spy-Glass, I saw that there moved acrossthe Land, from the direction of the Plain of Blue Fire, a mighty Hump,seeming of Black Mist, and came with prodigious swiftness. And I called
to the Master Monstruwacan, that he come and look through one of theeye-pieces that were about the Great Spy-Glass; and he came quickly, andwhen he had looked a while, he called to the Monstruwacan that had madereport. And the Monstruwacan answered, and replied that the Influencedrew nearer, by the reading of the instrument; yet of the thing itselfthe man had no sight.And I ceased not to look, and in a little while, the Humped thing passeddownwards into the Vale of Red Fire, which lay across the Land that way.But I watched steadfastly, and presently I saw the black Hump climb upfrom the Vale of Red Fire upon this side, and come through the night, sothat in scarce a minute it had come halfway across that part of theNight Land.
[DANGER][MONSTER]And my heart stood quiet with fear, and the utter terror of thisMonster, which I knew to be surely one of the Great Forces of Evil ofthat Land, and had power, without doubt, to destroy the spirit. And theMaster Monstruwacan leapt towards the Home-Call, and sent the greatSound down to the Ten-thousand, that they might attend, and immediately,he signalled to them to Beware. Yet, already I perceived that they knewof this Utter Danger that was upon them; for I saw them slay the Youthsquickly, that their spirits might not be lost; for they were Unprepared.But the men, being Prepared, had the Capsule, and would die swiftly inthe last moment.
[SURPRISE]I looked again towards the Hump, and saw that it came like a Hill ofBlackness in the Land, and was almost anigh. Then there happened awonder; for in that moment when all had else gone quickly, that theymight save their souls, out of the earth there rose a little Light, liketo the crescent of the young moon of this early day. And the crescentrose up into an arch of bright and cold fire, glowing but little; and itspanned above the Ten-thousand and the dead; and the Hump stood still,and went backwards and was presently lost.And the men came swiftly towards the Mighty Pyramid. Yet, ere they were
[DANGER][CONFLICT][ACTION][WEAPON]come to safety, the Baying of the Hounds sounded close upon them, andthey faced to the danger; yet, as I could know, without despair, becausethat they yet lived after so enormous a peril.And the Hounds were very nigh, as now I beheld with the Great Spy-Glass;and I counted five score, running with mighty heads low, and in a pack.And lo! as the Hounds came at them, the Ten-thousand drew apart, and hada space between the men, that they might have full use of that terribleDiskos; and they fought with the handles at length, and I saw the disksspin and glisten and send out fire.
[DANGER][CONFLICT][MURDER]Then was there a very great battle; for the Light that arched abovethem, and held away The Power from their souls, made not to protect themfrom this danger of the lesser monsters. And at an hundred thousandembrasures within the Mighty Pyramid, the women cried and sobbed, andlooked again. And in the lower cities it was told, after, that thePeoples could hear the crash and splinter of the armour, as the Houndsran to and fro, slaying; aye, even the sound of the armour between theirteeth.Yet, the Ten-thousand ceased not to smite with the Diskos; and theyhewed the Hounds in pieces; but of the men that went forth, there were athousand and seven hundred slain by the Hounds, ere the men won tovictory.
[DEATH][EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][MURDER]Then came that wearied band of heroes back to the home shelter of theVast Redoubt; and they bore their dead with them, and the Youths thatthey slew. And they were received with great honour, and with exceedinggrief, and in a great silence; for the thing admitted not of words,until a time had passed. And in the cities of the Pyramid there wasmourning; for there had been no sorrow like unto this through, mayhap,an hundred thousand years.And they bore the Youths to their Mothers and to their Fathers; and theFather of each made thanks to the men that they had saved the soul ofhis son; but the women were silent. Yet, neither to the Father nor to
[PROBLEM][SURPRISE][DANGER][PERSPECTIVE]the Mother, was ever made known the name of the slayers; for this mightnot be; as all shall see with a little thought.And some did remember that, in verity, all was due to the unwisdom ofthose Youths, who had heeded not the Law and their life-teachings. Yethad they paid to the uttermost, and passed outwards; and the account oftheir Deeds was closed.And all this while did great numbers spy toward the Road Where TheSilent Ones Walk, that they might watch that band of Youths afar in theNight Land, who went forward amid those horrid dangers. Yet, when the
dead Youths had been brought in, many had ceased to look out for a timeand had turned to questioning, and some had made inspection that theymight know which had come back, and which lay out there where the Giantshad slain them, or went forward to more dreadful matters.But who of those that were abroad, were slain, or still went onward, wehad but indifferent knowledge; though the men of the Ten-thousand knewsomewhat, having had speech with the wounded Youths, ere they slew them.And, as may be thought, these men were sorely questioned by the Mothersand the Fathers of those Youths that were not accounted of; yet I doubtthat few had much knowledge wherewith to console them.Now there was presently, in the Garden of Silence, which was thelowermost of all the Underground Fields, the Ending of those seventeenhundred heroes, and of the Youths that they saved and slew. And the
[EMOTION]Garden was a great country, and an hundred miles every way, and the roofthereof was three great miles above, and shaped to a mighty dome; as ithad been that the Builders and Makers thereof did remember in theirspirits the visible sky of this our present age.And the making of that Country was all set out in a single History ofseven thousand and seventy Volumes. And there were likewise seventhousand and seventy years spent to the making of that Country; so thatthere had unremembered generations lived and laboured and died, and seennot the end of their labour. And Love had shaped it and hallowed it; sothat of all the wonders of the world, there has been none that shallever come anigh to that Country of Silence--an hundred miles every wayof Silence to the Dead.
And there were in that roof seven moons set in a mighty circle, and litby the Earth-Current; and the circle was sixty miles across, so that allthat Country of Quiet was visible; yet to no great glare, but a sweetand holy light; so that I did always feel in my heart that a man mightweep there, and be unashamed.And in the midst of that silent Country, there was a great hill, andupon the hill a vast Dome. And the Dome was full of a Light that mightbe seen in all that Country, which was the Garden of Silence. Andbeneath the Dome was the [DIALOGUE]"Crack," and within it the glory of theEarth-Current, from which all had life and light and safety. And in the
[RELIEF][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION]Dome, at the North, there was a gateway; and a narrow road went upwardto the gateway; and the Road was named The Last Road; and the Gatewaywas named by no name, but known to all as The Gateway.And there were in that mighty Country, long roadways, and hidden methodsto help travel; and constant temples of rest along the miles; andgroves; and the charm of water, falling. And everywhere the Statues ofMemory, and the Tablets of Memory; and the whole of that GreatUnderground Country full of an echo of Eternity and of Memory and Loveand Greatness; so that to walk alone in that Land was to grow back tothe wonder and mystery of Childhood; and presently to go upwards againto the Cities of the Mighty Pyramid, purified and sweetened of soul andmind.And in my boyhood, I have wandered oft a week of days in that Country ofSilence, and had my food with me, and slept quietly amid the memories;and gone on again, wrapped about with the quiet of the Everlasting. And
[SURPRISE]the man-soul within would be drawn mightily to those places where theGreat Ones of the past Eternity of the World had their Memory named; butthere was that within me which ever drew me, in the ending, to the Hillsof the Babes; those little hills where might be heard amid thelonesomeness of an utter quiet, a strange and wondrous echo, as of alittle child calling over the hills. But how this was I know not, saveby the sweet cunning of some dead Maker in the forgotten years.And here, mayhaps by reason of this Voice of Pathos, were to be foundthe countless Tokens of Memory to all the babes of the Mighty Pyramid,through a thousand ages. And, odd whiles, would I come upon someMother, sitting there lonely, or mayhaps companied by others. And by
[DEATH]this little telling shall you know somewhat of the quietness and thewonder and the holiness of that great Country hallowed to all Memory andto Eternity and to our Dead.And it was here, into the Country of Silence, that they brought down theDead to their Burial. And there came down into the Country of Silence,maybe an Hundred Million, out of the Cities of the Pyramid, to bepresent, and to do Honour.Now they that had charge of the Dead, did lay them upon the road whichran up unto The Gateway, even that same road which was named The LastRoad. And the Road moved upwards slowly with the Dead; and the Dead went
[TRANSITION][CONFLICT][MURDER]inward through The Gateway; first the poor Youths, and afterward theythat had given up life that they might save them.And as the Dead went upwards, there was a very great Silence over allthe miles of the Country of Silence. But in a little while there camefrom afar off, a sound as of a wind wailing; and it came onwards out ofthe distance, and passed over the Hills of the Babes, which were a greatway off. And so came anigh to the place where I stood. Even as the
[DEATH]blowing of a sorrowful wind did it come; and I knew that all the greatmultitudes did sing quietly; and the singing passed onwards, and leftbehind it an utter silence; even as the wind doth rustle the corn, andpass onwards, and all fall to a greater seeming quietness than before.And the Dead passed inward through The Gateway, into the great light andsilence of the Dome; and came out no more.And again from beyond the far Hills of the Babes there was that sound ofthe millions singing; and there rose up out of the earth beneath, thevoices of the underground organs; and the noise of the sorrow passedover me, and went again into the distance, and left all hushed.And lo! as there passed inward to the silence of the Dome the last of
[TRANSITION][FLASHBACK]those dead Heroes, there came again the sound from beyond the Hills ofthe Babes; and as it came more nigh, I knew that it was the Song ofHonour, loud and triumphant, and sung by countless multitudes. And theVoices of the Organs rose up into thunder from the deep earth. And therewas a great Honour done to the glory of the Dead. And afterwards, oncemore a silence.
Then did the Peoples of the Cities arrange themselves so that from everycity whence had come a Hero, were the People of that City gatheredtogether. And when they were so gathered, they set up Tokens of Memoryto the Dead of their City. But afterwards did charge Artists to themaking of sculpture great and beautiful to that same end; and now didbut place Tablets against that time.And afterwards the People did wander over that Country of Silence, andmade visit and honour to their Ancestors, if such were deserving.
And presently, the mighty lifts did raise them all to the Cities of thePyramid; and thereafter there was something more of usualness; save thatever the embrasures were full of those that watched the Youths afar uponthe Great Road. And in this place I to remember how that our spy-glasseshad surely some power of the Earth-Current to make greater the impulseof the light upon the eye. And they were like no spy-glass that ever youdid see; but oddly shaped and to touch both the forehead and the eyes;and gave wonderful sight of the Land. But the Great Spy-Glass to bebeyond all this; for it had the Eyes of it upon every side of The MightyPyramid, and did be truly an Huge Machine.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]And to me, as I went about my duties, or peered forth through the GreatSpy-Glass at the Youths upon the Road Where The Silent Ones Walk, therecame at times a far faint thrilling of the aether; so that sometimes Iwas aware that there was the beating of the Master-Word in the night;but so strange and weak, that the Instruments had no wotting of it. Andwhen this came, then would I call back through all the everlasting nightto Naani, who was indeed Mirdath; and I would send the Master-Word withmy brain-elements; and afterwards such comfort as I might.Yet hard and bitter was the truth of my helplessness and weakness, andthe utter terror and might of the Evil Forces and Monsters of the NightLand. So that I was like to have brake my heart with pondering.
And the silence would come again; and anon the weak thrilling of theAether; but no more the far voice speaking in my soul.VINTO THE NIGHT LANDNow, after that destruction which had come upon the Ten-thousand, andthe fresh assurance that was upon us of the terror of the Night Land, itmay be known that there could be no more thought to succour. Though, intruth, those Youths that went now upon the Road Where The Silent OnesWalk were far beyond our aid.Yet might it be thought that we should have signalled to them, callingby the Home-Call, which was that great Voice which went forth from theMachine above the sealed base of the Mighty Pyramid. But this we might
[SETTING][SURPRISE]not do; for then we gave signal to the Monsters of that Land, that somewere even now abroad from the Pyramid; yet we could no more than hopethat the Evil Forces had no wotting of them; for, in verity, none mightever know the knowledge or the Ignorance which those Powers did possess.Yet, it must be kept to the mind that we knew even then there was anInfluence abroad in the Land, strange and quiet; so that the Instrumentsdid not more than make record of it. And as I have surely set down erenow, we had belief that it did come from that House of Silence, afar inthe Night Land, upon that low hill to the North of the Great Road. Andmany among the Monstruwacans feared that it was directed upon theYouths; but of this there could be no surety; and we could but wait andwatch.
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]Now, about this time those poor Youths did draw nigh to that part of theRoad Where The Silent Ones Walk, where it turned more swiftly to theNorth; and they to be now at no mighty distance from that grim andhorrid House.And presently we knew that the Influence had a greater Power in theLand; and I had an assuredness that it came from the House; yet nocertain proof was this. But I set out my feelings to the MasterMonstruwacan; and he had trust in them and in my power; moreover, healso had belief within himself that some secret Power came out from theHouse of Silence.And some talk there was at times that we send the Home-Call into thenight, to give warning to the Youths of our knowledge and our fear; andto entreat them to make a safe endeavour to return swiftly. Yet was this
[DANGER][PROBLEM][MONSTER]an error; and refused by the Master Monstruwacan; for it was not meetthat we put the souls of those Youths in peril, until such time as wehad certainty that they should be lost if we did not bestir ourselves.For, indeed, this Home-Call was as a mighty Voice, calling over theworld, and did have so exceeding a noise, that it had immediately toldall that Land how that some were yet abroad from the Great Redoubt. Andhere will I set down how that the Home-Call had no use in those ages;but had been a Call in the olden time when yet the great flying-shipswent abroad over the world.And there passed now a day and a night; and in all that time thereceased not great multitudes to peer forth into the Night Land at theYouths. For it was known concerning the Influence, and all felt that the
[PROBLEM][DANGER][CONFLICT][SETTING]Youths did draw nigh very speedy to their fate; and much talk there was;and many things said, and much foolish speech, and kind intent; but nocourage to go forth to make further attempt to rescue; which, in truth,calls not for great astonishment, as I have surely writ or oft thought.And in this place let me set down that the Land was, as it might besaid, waked, and unquiet, and a sense of things passing in the night,and of horrid watchfulness; and there were, at this time and at that,low roars that went across the Land. And if I have not told the samebefore this time, it must be set to count against me and my telling;for, indeed, I should have writ it down before this place. Yet is thedifficulty of my task great; and all must bear with me, and entreat forme that I have courage, so that I may come at last to strength andwisdom to tell all that I did see.
[TRANSITION][DANGER][ACTION][CONTEXT][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][HAUNTED HOUSE]Now, in the space of this day and night, it was known that the Youthshad not slept, neither had they eaten, save once, as they who had thewatch through the Great Spy-Glass did affirm. But they to hasten alwayat a woeful speed towards the North, along that Great Dismal Road, sothat presently they must cease, or slay themselves with their endeavour.And all this did give surety to our fears that they were under a spellfrom that horrid House afar in the Land; and we had an assurance thatthis thing was. For, presently, there came a Monstruwacan to the MasterMonstruwacan to report that there had come sudden a mighty Influenceinto the Land; and in the same moment, as it might be, I spied throughthe Great Spy-Glass, and did see those Youths break swiftly from theRoad Where The Silent Ones Walk, and begin to run very swift that theymight come quickly to the House of Silence.
[DANGER][CONFLICT][DEATH][PROBLEM][CONTEXT][EMOTION][HORROR]Then did the Master Monstruwacan hesitate not; but did send theHome-Call across the world, aye, even to those poor doomed ones thathastened, unknowing, to the terror which did compel them. Andimmediately upon the sound, the Master did send a message to the naturaleye, in set language, and made warning that they suffered themselves tobe drawn to their destruction by a Force that came from within the Houseof Silence.And he besought them to put forth the strength of their spirits, and dobattle for their souls; and if they could in no wise compass a victoryover _that which drew them onwards_, to slay themselves quickly, erethey went into that House to the horror of utter destruction.And in all the Pyramid was there a great silence; for the bellowing ofthe Home-Call bred a quietness, because of that which it did portend;and it was swiftly known by the millions that the Master Monstruwacandid plead for the souls of the Youths; and there went forth,unknowingly, a counter-force from the Mighty Pyramid, by reason of theprayers and soul-wishings of the countless millions.
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT][EMOTION][TRANSITION][ACTION]And the counter-force was plain to my inward hearing, and beat all theaether of the world into a surge of supplication; so that it stunned myspirit with the great power of it. And it seemed to me, as it were,that there was a vast spiritual-noise in all the night; and I spiedtremblingly through the Great Spy-Glass, and lo! the Youths did ceasefrom their swift running, and were come together in a crowd, and had aseeming to be confused; as might some who have waked suddenly fromsleep, to find that they walked in their sleep, and had come to astrange place.Then came there a great roar from all the millions that spied from theembrasures--from nigh five hundred thousand embrasures they did look,and I count not the great View-Tables. And the shouting rose up like to
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT][EMOTION][TRANSITION][HORROR]the roaring of a mighty wind of triumph, yet was it over-early to soundfor victory. For the counter-force which came from the intensity of somany wills blent to one intent, was brake, and the Evil Force which cameforth out of the House did draw the Youths again; so that they heedednot their salvation; but turned once again to their running.And the Mighty Pyramid was full of a shaken silence, and immediately oflamentation and sorrow and horror at this thing. But in that momentthere did happen a fresh wonder; for there grew suddenly before thosepoor Youths, billows of mist--as it had been of pure white fire, shiningvery chill; yet giving no light upon them.
And the mist of cold fire stayed their way, so that we had knowledgethat there fought for the souls of them, one of those sweet Powers ofGoodness, which we had belief did strive to ward our spirits at alltimes from those Forces of Evil and Destruction. And all the millionssaw the thing; but some with a great clearness, and many doubtful; yetwere all advanced more in spiritual sight and hearing than the normalPeoples of this Age.But of them all, none had the Night-Hearing, to know a soul havingspeech in the aether half across the world. Yet, as I have said, somethere had been aforetime who were thus given the Hearing, even as was I.
[MONSTER]And there came a Monstruwacan to the Master Monstruwacan to make reportthat the Influence had ceased to work upon the Instruments; and by thisthing we knew that in verity the Force which proceeded out from theHouse of Silence was cut off from us, and from those Youths; and we hadassurance that there fought a very mighty Power for the salvation of thesouls of the Youths.And all the Peoples were silent, save for an underbreath of wonder andtalk; for all were utter stirred with hope and fear, perceiving that theYouths had some chance given unto them to return.And whilst the Youths yet wavered in their minds, as I perceived withthe Great Spy-Glass, and the knowledge of my soul, and of my naturalwit, lo! the Master Monstruwacan sent once more the great Voice of theHome-Call abroad into the Land; and immediately besought those Youthsfor the sake of their souls and the love which their Mothers had forthem, to come swiftly Homewards, whilst they had yet this great Powerto shield them, and allow them sweet sanity.
[MONSTER]And I thought that some did look towards the Pyramid, as that theyanswered to the mighty Voice of the Home-Call, and did read the messagewhich the Master Monstruwacan made to them. But in a moment they facedabout, seeming to have a good obedience to one who did always lead; andof whom I had inquired, and found to be one named Aschoff, who was agreat athlete of the Nine-Hundredth-City. And this same Aschoff, out ofthe boldness and bravery of his heart, did make, unwitting, to destroythe souls of them all; for he went forward and leapt into the billows ofthe bright shining fire that made a Barrier in the way of theirDestruction.And immediately the fire ceased from its shining, and gave way and sankand grew to a nothingness; and Aschoff of the Nine-Hundredth-City beganagain to run towards the House of Silence; and all they that were withhim, did follow faithfully, and ceased not to run.
And they came presently to the low Hill whereon was that horrid House;and they went up swiftly--and they were two hundred and fifty, andwholesome of heart, and innocent; save for a natural waywardness ofspirit.And they came to the great open doorway that [DIALOGUE]"hath been open since theBeginning," and through which the cold steadfast light and theinscrutable silence of Evil [DIALOGUE]"hath made for ever a silence that may befelt in all the Land." And the great, uncased windows gave out thesilence and the light--aye, the utter silence of an unholy desolation.And Aschoff ran in through the great doorway of silence, and they thatfollowed. And they nevermore came out or were seen by any human.
[SURPRISE][DANGER][PROBLEM][EMOTION][HORROR]And it must be known that the Mothers and the Fathers of those Youthslooked out into the Night Land, and saw that thing which came to pass.And all the people were silent; but some said presently that the Youthswould come forth again; yet the people knew in their hearts that theyoung men had gone in to Destruction; for, in truth, there was that inthe night which spoke horror to the souls of all, and a sudden utterquiet in all the Land.But unto me (that had the Night-Hearing) there came a great Fear of thatwhich might be whispered into my spirit, out of the Quietness of thenight--of the agony of those young men. Yet there came no sound, to thehearing of the soul; neither then nor in all the years that were tocome; for, in verity, had those Youths passed into a Silence of whichthe heart cannot think.
[HORROR]And here will I tell how that the strange Quiet which did fill all theLand, seeming to brood within the night, was horrid beyond all theroarings which had passed over the darkness in the time that wentbefore; so that it had given my spirit some rest and assurance to hearbut the far-echoing, low thunder of the Great Laughter, or the whiningwhich was used at times to sound in the night from the South-East, wherewere the Silver-fire Holes that opened before the Thing that Nods. Orthe Baying of the Hounds, or the Roaring of the Giants, or any of thosedreadful sounds that did often pass through the night. For they couldnot have offended me as did that time of silence; and so shall you judgehow dreadful was that quiet, which did hold so much of horror.And surely it will be known that none had thinkings now, even in idlespeech, that any should have power to succour the Peoples of the LesserRedoubt. Neither, as I have said, had any the knowledge of the place
[PROBLEM][DANGER][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][DEATH][CONTEXT][METAPHOR][HORROR]where it did stand.And so was it made plain that those Peoples must suffer and comeunhelped and alone to their end; which was a sad and dreadful thought toany. Yet had those within the Great Pyramid come already to much sorrowand calamity because that some had made attempt in this matter. Andthere had been for gain, only failure, and the sorrow of Mothers, andthe loneliness of Wives, and of kin. And now this dread horror upon us,
which concerned those lost Youths.Now, as may be conceived, this _sure knowledge_ that we might give nosuccour to the People of the Lesser Redoubt, weighed heavy upon myheart; for I had, maybe with foolishness, held vague hopes and wondersconcerning our power to make expedition secretly into the Night, todiscover that Lesser Pyramid, and rescue those poor thousands; and aboveall, as may be thought, had I the thought of that sweet moment in whichI should step forward out of the night and all mystery and terror, andput forth mine arms to Naani, saying: [DIALOGUE]"I am That One." And knowing, inmy soul, that she that had been mine in that bygone Eternity, shouldsurely know me upon the instant; and call out swiftly, and come swiftly,and be again unto me in that age, even as she had been in this.And to think upon it, and to know that this thing should never be; butthat, even in that moment of thought, she that had been mine in theseolden days of sweetness, might be even then suffering horror in thePower of some foul Monster, was like a kind of madness; so that nearly Icould seize the Diskos, and run forth unprepared into the evil andterror of the Night Land, that I should make one attempt to come to thatPlace where she abode, or else to cast off my life in the attempt.And oft did I call to Naani; and always I sent the Master-Word beatingthrough the night, that she might have assurance that it was indeed Ithat did speak unto her spirit, and no foul thing or Monster, spellingevil and lies unto her.
And oft did I make to instruct her that never should she be temptedforth from the shelter of that Redoubt in which she did live, by anymessage out of the night; but always to await the Master-Word; and,moreover, to have a sure knowledge that none that was her Friend wouldever seek to entice her into the night.And this way and that way would I speak with Naani, sending my wordssilently with my brain-elements; yet was it doleful and weariful anddreadful always to have speech into the dark, and never to hear theanswering beat of the Master-Word, and the sweet, faint voice whisperingwithin my soul. Yet, once and again, would I have knowledge that theaether did thrill about me, weakly, and to mine inward hearing it wouldseem that the Master-Word did beat faintly in the night; and thereafterwould my heart have a little comfort, in that I had assurance, of akind, that the love-maid of my memory-dreams did still live.And constant, I put forth my soul to hark; so that my health failed me,with the effort of my harking; and I would chide my being, that I hadnot a wiser control; and so make a fight to do sanely.
[DANGER]Yet, day by day, did my heart grow more weary and restless; for, indeed,it did seem that life was but a very little matter, against so great aloss as my heart did feel to suffer.And oft, at this time and that, did there come a Voice speaking plainlyout of the night, and did purport to be the voice of Naani; but ever Idid say the Master-Word unto the Voice, and the Voice had no power bywhich it could make the one answer. Yet I jeered not at the Voice, toshow contempt of its failing to bewit me; but let the matter bide; andthe Voice would be silent a time; and again would make a calling untome; but never did I make speech with it (for therein lies the danger tothe soul), but always did speak the Master-Word to its silencing; andthereafter would shut the thing from my memory, and think only uponsweet and holy matters, as it might be Truth and Courage, but more oftenof Naani, which was both sweet and holy to my spirit and heart andbeing.And so it was as I have set down, there were Monsters without in theNight that did torment me; having, it may be, intent to lure me untodestruction; or indeed it doth chance that they had no hope but toplague me with malice.
[PROBLEM][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][MONSTER]And, as may be thought, all this considering of my trouble, and thegiving of my strength unto Naani through the night of the world, thatshe might have comfort and help, did work upon me; so that I grew thin,plainly to the eye of those that loved me.And the Master Monstruwacan, he that did love me, as I were his son,chid me gently, and had wise speech with me; so that I but loved him themore, yet without having gain of health; for my heart destroyed me, asit doth if love be held back and made always to weep.And it may be thought strange that my Mother and my Father did not talkalso with me; but I had neither Mother nor Father those many years; andthis thing I should have set down early; so that none should wastethought pondering to no end. But the blame is to my telling.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]Now, concerning my love-trouble, there did happen a certain thing whichgave me to decide; for one night I waked from a sore troubled sleep, andit did seem that Naani did call my name, mine olden love name, and in avoice of utter anguish and with beseeching. And I sat up in the bed, andsent the Master-Word into the Night, with my brain-elements; andpresently all about me there was the solemn beat of the Master-Word,answering; but weak, and gone faint, that scarce I might hear it.And I called again with my brain-elements unto Naani, that was Mirdath;and spoke to give her assurance, and to haste to tell unto me that whichwas so wrong and pitiful with her. And who shall be amazed that I wasshaken with the eagerness of my spirit, in that it was so long sinceNaani had spoken clear within my soul; and now behold, her voice.
[CONFLICT][EMOTION][SURPRISE][DANGER][HORROR]Yet, though I did call many a time unto the everlasting night, therecame no more the voice of Naani, speaking strangely within my spirit;but only at times a weak thrilling of the aether about me.And, at the last I grew maddened with the sorrow of this thing, and thesense and knowledge of harm about the maid; and I stood upright upon myfeet, and I raised my hands, and gave word and honour unto Naani throughall the blackness of the night, that I would no more abide within theMighty Pyramid to my safety, whilst she, that had been mine Own throughEternity, came to horror and destruction by the Beasts and Evil Powersof that Dark World. And I gave the word with my brain-elements, and badeher to be of heart; for that until I died I would seek her. But out ofthe Darkness there came naught but the silence.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][DANGER]Then I clothed me swiftly, and went up quickly to the Tower ofObservation, that I might speak instant with the Master Monstruwacan;for my heart burned in me to intention, and to be doing speedily thatwhich I had set upon myself to do.And I came to the Master Monstruwacan, and told all to him; and how thatI did mean no more to suffer in quiet and to no end; but to makeadventure into the Night Land, that I find Naani, or perchance find aswift peace from this my long troubling.Now, when the Master Monstruwacan heard that which I had to say, it satheavily upon him, and he besought me long and many times that I refrainfrom this thing; for that none might achieve so great a task; but that Ishould be lost in my Youth before many days were gone by. Yet to all hisspeech I said naught, save that this thing was laid upon me, and even asI had promised, so should I make to act.
[PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION][RELIEF][CHARACTERIZATION][CONFLICT][CONTEXT][MONSTER]And in the ending, the Master Monstruwacan perceived that I was set tothis thing, and not to be moved; and he did put it to me how that I hadgrown to leanness, with so much troubling, and that I should have wisdomto wait awhile, that I put on my full strength.But even as I was, so would I go; and this I told to him, gently; andshowed how that the thing was meet and helpful to the safety of my soul;for that my strength was still in me; yet was I sweeter in spiritbecause that I stood lean and pure, and much poor dross and littlenesshad been burned from me; so that fear was not in me. And all do I lay tothe count of my love, which doth purify and make sweet and fearless thehuman heart.And because I was even as I have said, so was I the less in trouble ofthe Forces of Evil; for long and sore had been my Preparation of Spirit;and I wot that none had ever gone forth into the Darkness, so longwithholden from that which doth weaken and taint the spirit.
[SURPRISE][SETTING][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION][CHARACTERIZATION][HORROR]And here let me set down how that the Three Days of Preparation, whichwere Proper to those that willed to go forth into the Night Land, hadfor their chief aim the cleansing of the spirit; so that the Powers ofEvil did have a less ableness to harm.But also it was, as I have said, that none should go forth in ignoranceof the full dreadfulness of all that held the Night; for it was at thePreparation that there was made known certain horrors that were not toldunto the young; and of horrid mutilations, and of abasements of thesoul, that did shake the heart with fear, if but they were whisperedinto the hearing. And these things were not set down in any book thatmight be lightly come by; but were warded and safe locked by the Masterof The Preparation, in the Room of Preparation.And, indeed, when I did hear that which presently I was to hear, I hadwonder in my heart that ever any went out into the Night Land; or thatever the Room of Preparation should have other than Students that meantnot to go forth, but only to achieve some knowledge of that which hathbeen done, and mayhaps shall be once again.
[TRANSITION]Yet, in verity, is this but the way of the human heart; and hath alwaysbeen, and will be so in all the years, for ever. For to adventure is thelust of Youth; and to leave Safety is the natural waywardness of thespirit; and who shall reprove or regret; for it were sorrowful that thisSpirit of Man should cease. Yet must it not be thought that I do upholdfightings to the death or to mutilation, _between man and man_; butrather do sorrow upon this thought.Now, when the morrow came, if thus I shall speak of that which wasoutwardly even as the night, though changing alway within the MightyPyramid, I went unto the Room of Preparation; and the Door was closedupon me; and I underwent the Full Preparation; that I might have fullpower and aid to come to success through all the terror of the NightLand.
And three days and three nights did I abide within the Room ofPreparation; and upon the fourth day was mine armour brought unto me;and the Master of the Preparation stood away from me, silent and withsorrow upon his face; but touching me not, neither coming anigh to aidme; nor having any speech with me; for none might crowd upon me, orcause me to answer.And, presently, was I clad with the grey armour; and below the armour aclose-knit suit of special shaping and texture, to have the shape of thearmour, and that I might not die by the cold of the Night Land. And Iplaced upon me a scrip of food and drink, that might keep the lifewithin me for a great time, by reason of its preparation; and this layready to me, with the armour, and was stitched about with the Mark ofHonour; so that I knew loving women thus to speed me.And when all was done and made ready, I took up the Diskos, and bowed insilence to the Master of the Preparation; and he went towards the door,and opened it; and signalled that the People stand back; so that I mightgo forth untouched. And the People stood back; for many had crowded to
the door of the Room of Preparation, so that I knew how that my storymust be to the heart of all, in all the Cities of the Great Redoubt; forto come unbidden anigh that Door was against the Lesser Law, and thatany erred in this matter, betokened much.And I went out through the Door; and there was a mighty lane of peopleunto the Great Lift. And about the Great Lift, as I went downwards, didthe countless millions stand; and all in a great silence; but havingdear sympathy in their souls; yet loyal unto my safety, in that none inall the Mighty Pyramid did make speech unto me, or call out aught. Andas I went downward through the miles, lo! all the aether of the world
seemed to be surged with the silent prayers and speedings of those quietmultitudes.And I came at last unto the Great Gate; and behold the dear MasterMonstruwacan did stand in full armour, and with the Diskos, to do mehonour, with the Full Watch, as I went forth. And I looked at him,quietly, and he looked unto me, and I bent my head to show respect; andhe made silent salute with the Diskos; and afterwards I went onwardstowards the Great Gateway.And they made dim the lights in the Great Causeway, that there should noglare go forth into the Land, when the Gate was opened; and behold, theyopened not the lesser gate within the greater, for me; but did honour myjourney, in that they swung wide the Great Gate itself, through which amonstrous army might pass. And there was an utter silence all about the
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][MONSTER]Gate; and in the hushed light the two thousand that made the Full Watch,held up each the Diskos, silently, to make salute; and humbly, I held upthe Diskos reversed, and went forward into the Dark.VITHE WAY THAT I DID GONow I went forward for a space, and took heed not to look backwards; butto be strong of heart and spirit; for that which did lie before me hadneed of all my manhood and courage of soul, that I come to the succourof that Maid afar in the darkness of the World, or meet my death proper,as it might need to be.And thus did I go forward steadfastly, and conscious in all my being ofthe emotions of that parting from my mighty Home, and of the tendernessand wiseness that did underlie so much curbed rule and guidance.And my heart was warm towards the Master Monstruwacan for that greathonour, that he should come downward in armour to make one with the FullWatch, that he might uphold me to a lofty spirit at the moment of mygoing.
And all that time as I went forward, was the aether of the night aboutme, in tumult with the thoughts and blind wishings of the great millionsI had but now left to my back.And, presently, as I steadied somewhat upon my emotions, I was consciousof the exceeding coldness of the night air, and of the different tasteof it upon my lungs and in the mouth; and it had, as it were, a wondrouskeen sharping upon my palate, and did fill the lips more in thebreathing; so that it may be supposed it had more body within it thanthat air which did fill the plateau of the Thousandth City where was myhome; for the air of every City was of difference, and the greaterbetween one that was afar up and another nigh to the earth, as may bethought; so that many Peoples did migrate unto that level which gavethem best healthfulness; but under rule, and with a guidance ofquantities. And not all that were lacking of health; for, some are evercontrary.And here let me set down that, within the deeps of the Fields, there wasair utter varied and wonderful, that might charm one here and likewisesorrow another that were happier elsewhere; so that all might havesuiting, did they but wander, and have Reason to companion them.
[SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]And thus did I go forward, full of new thoughts and olden memories, andfresh-breaking wonders; neither forgetting something of doubts and fearsmore than a little. And again was it most cunning strange to be outthere in the Night Land--though not yet afar--where often had my fanciesand imaginings led me; yet until that time never had I touched foot, inall that life, upon the outward earth. And this must be a wondrousquaint seeming thought to those of this present day.And so came I, at last, nigh to the Circle that did go about theRedoubt; and presently I was come to it; and something astonished was Ithat it had no great bigness; for I had looked for this by _reasoning_;having always a mind to picture things as they might be truly, and hencecoming sometimes to the wonder of a great truth; but odd whiles toerrors that others had not made. And now, lo! I did find it but a small,
[FLASHBACK]clear tube that had not two inches of thickness; yet sent out a verybright and strong light, so that it seemed greater to the eye, did onebut behold from a distance.And this is but a little thing to set to the telling; yet may it givesomething of the newness of all; and, moreover, shall you have memorywith me in this place, how that oft had I seen Things and Beast-Monsterspeer over that same little tube of light, their faces coming forward outof the night.And this had I seen as child and man; for as children, we did use tokeep oft a watch by hours upon an holiday-time, through the greatglasses of the embrasures. And we did always hope each to be that onethat should first discover a monster looking inwards upon the MightyPyramid, across the shining of the Circle. And these to come oft; yet
[EMOTION][FLASHBACK][METAPHOR][MONSTER]presently to slink away into the night; having, in verity, no liking forthat light.And pride had we taken of ourselves to perceive those monsters which hadmost of ugliness and horror to commend them; for, thereby did we standto have won the game of watching, until such time as a more fearsomeBrute be discovered. And so went the play; yet with ever, it doth seemto me now, something of a half-known shudder to the heart, and a child'srejoicing unknowingly in that safety which had power to make light theseeming of such matters.And this, also, is but a small matter; yet doth it bear upon theinwardness of my feelings; for the memories of all my youth and of themany Beasts that I had seen to peer across the Light, did come upwardsin my mind in that moment; so that I did give back a little, unthinkingof what I did; but having upon me the sudden imagining of that whichmight come out of the Dark, beyond.
And I to stand a little moment, and presently had grown free in my heartto have courage of farewell; and so did turn me at last to the viewingof that wondrous Home of the Last Millions of this World. And the sightwas an astonishment and an uplifting, that indeed there was so mighty athing in all the earth.And well might be that there were Monsters and Forces gathered togetherabout that Hill of Life, out of all the Darkness of the World; for thething was as a Mighty Mountain that went up measureless into the night;and spread out upon the earth to the right and to the left of me, sothat it did seem to hold all the world with its might.And in the nearer slope were there three hundred thousand greatembrasures, as well I did know; there being in all the four sides of theRedoubt, twelve hundred thousand embrasures, as was set out in the booksof the schools, and upon the cover of Atlas-books as they still quaintlyto be called, and many another place, as might be supposed.
And half a mile upward was the lowest tier of those great window-places,and above that, countless other tiers. And a great light came out fromthem into the darkness; so that I looked up into the night many miles,and yet did see them in shining rows; and did make separate eachembrasure from its fellow for a great way. But there grew yet more,above in the mighty distance, so that they were lost in the upward spaceof the night, and did seem to me presently but as a constant, glimmeringfire, that did shape a shining Peak into the blackness of the heavens,dwindling into the utmost height. And thus was that EverlastingMonument.
[FLASHBACK][TRANSITION]Then did it come to me that those little things, which I did see tocluster against the embrasures, were in truth the countless millions ofthe Mighty Redoubt; and this I could make out with some plainness inthose lower embrasures, which were the more near to me than they above;for the Peoples were set against the light within, yet were as smallthings like unto insects, in that distance, and within so Huge a Bulk.And I knew that they looked out upon me, and did watch through theirspy-glasses. And I sent my gaze upwards again along that great Slope ofgrey metal, aye! upward again to where it strode glimmering into theBlackness, and so at last to the little star that did crown that Wonderof the World in the eternal night. And, for a little, I did stare
[EMOTION]towards that far light; for it came from within that Tower ofObservation, where so lately I had spended my life; and I had knowledgewithin my heart that the dear Master Monstruwacan did bend the GreatSpy-Glass upon me, through which so oft had I spied. And I raised theDiskos unto him, in salutation and farewell, though I saw him not at allthrough that vast space.And my heart was very full; yet my soul but the stronger for it. Andthen, behold, I was aware of a murmur in the night, coming to me, dimand from afar off; and I saw the little shapes of the Peoples in thelower embrasures, in constant movement; and I knew upon the instant thatthe Multitudes did take that salute unto themselves, and cried out andwaved to me their farewells, or to come back--as may be.
[DANGER][TRANSITION][METAPHOR][EMOTION][MONSTER]And, indeed, I was but a lonesome person looking up at that greatmountain of metal and Life. And I knew that I had danger to realise myplight; and I stayed no more; but did raise the Diskos, reversed, as wasbut meet from one young man unto all the Millions.And I looked swiftly upward through those eight great miles of night,unto that Final Light which did shine in the black heavens; so that myfriend should know that I thought of him that was beyond my sight, inthat last moment. And it may be that the invisible millions that werefar up in the night, in the Upper Cities, did take that also to be ameaning of farewell to themselves; for there came down out of themonstrous height, a far, faint murmur of sound, as of a vague wind up inthe night.
[EMOTION][TRANSITION]Then did I lower the Diskos, and turn me about. And I breasted strangelyagainst the Air Clog, and stept forward across the Circle, into thelonesomeness of the Night Land. And I looked no more behind; for thatwhich was my Home did weaken my heart somewhat, to behold; so that Imade determination that I look not again to my back, for a great while.Yet, about me as I went, there was constant surging in the aether of theworld; and it did tell unto me how that those, my people and kin, hadcontinual mind of me, both in prayer and wishings, and in a perpetualwatching. And the same gave to me a feeling as of being something
[DANGER][EMOTION][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][METAPHOR][TRANSITION]companied; yet, in a time, it came to me that this disturbance of theaether should tell to some Evil Force how that I was there abroad in theLand. But how to stop this thing, who should have power? For, of truth,had I been among them to make a full explaining of the danger, they hadbeen yet powerless to cease; for but to have such great multitudesa-think upon one matter, was to set a disturbance about, as should bemost clear to all.Now, at the beginning, I did walk outwards into the Night Land, somewhatblindly, and without sure direction; being intent only to put a goodspace to my back, that I might cure somewhat the ache which did weakenmy heart at the first.
[TRANSITION][DANGER][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][HAUNTED HOUSE]But, in awhile, I ceased somewhat from my overswiftness, and did putthought to my going. And I came quickly to reason that I should try anew way through the Land; for it might be that there was anover-watchfulness in that part which had been trod by the Youths.And I began therewith to set this thought to the practice; and went notdirect towards the North; but to the North and West; and so in the endto mean to circle around to the back of the North-West Watcher, andthence to the North of the Plain Of Blue Fire; and afterwards, as mightbe, have a true and straightway to the North; and by this planning comea long way clear of that House of Silence, which did put more fear uponme than all else that was horrid in the Land.Yet, as all will see, this made to me a greater journey; though, inverity, it were better to go slowly and win to success, than to make agreater haste towards Destruction; which was, indeed, surely to be mineend, did I not go warily.
[SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR]Now it may be thought upon with wonder, that I did go so assuredly tothe North; but I went thiswise, part by an inward Knowing, and part comeupon by much latter studying, within the Pyramid, of olden books; and byreasoning upon all things that I did observe, that had seemings ofverity in them.And because of this constant searching upon one matter, I had come, buta while back, upon a little book of metal, very strange and ancient,that had lain forgot in a hid place in the Great Library through tenhundred thousand years, maybe, or less or more, for all that I hadknowing.And much that was writ in the book was common knowledge, and set mostlyto the count of fairy-tales and suchlike, even as we of this our agetake not over-surely any belief in Myths of olden times. Yet had Ialways much liking for such matters, perceiving behind that outer shellwhich did win always so much unbelief, the kernel of ancient truths andhappenings.
[CONTEXT][SETTING][TRANSITION][MONSTER]And thus was it, concerning this little book which I had made discoveryof; for it told again, that which oft I had heard (even as we in thisage, read of the Deluge) how that once, in a time monstrous far backfrom that, but utter future to this age of ours, the world did brakeupwards in a vast earth-quaking, that did rend the world for a thousandmiles.And there came a mighty chasm, so deep that none might see the bottomthereof; and there rushed therein an ocean, and the earth did burstafresh with a sound that did shake all the cities of the world; and agreat mist lay upon the earth for many days, and there was a mightyrain.And, indeed, this was just so set in certain Histories of the AncientWorld. Also, there was made reference to it, within some olden Records.
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION][METAPHOR][FLASHBACK]Yet nowise to be taken with a serious mind, to the seeming of thepeoples of the Mighty Pyramid; but only as a quaint study for theStudents, and to be set out in little tales that did entertain thenurseries; or, as it might be, wise men and the general.Yet, there was this, about that small and peculiar book, that it didspeak of many of these things, as it were that it did quote from thepens of those that did have actual witness; and set all out with astrange gravity, that did cause one to consider it as meant to be indeedthe tellings of Truth, and to seem thiswise to have great differencefrom all that I had read before concerning those matters.And there was, further, a part in the ending of the book, that did seemto be writ of a time that came afterwards, maybe an hundred thousand,and maybe a million years; but who shall say.And therein it did tell of an huge and mighty Valley that did come outof the West, towards the South-East, and made turning thence Northwards,and was a thousand miles both ways. And the sides thereof were an
[PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR]hundred miles deep, and the Sun did stand in the Western end, and made ared gloom for a thousand miles. And in the bottom there were great seas;and beasts strange and awesome, and very plentiful.Now this, as may be seen, was as the talk of Romance; yet did I turn mywits to their natural end, and made thus plain of it. For, in truth, Ito have something of belief, and it to seem to me that in a bygoneEternity, when the world was yet light, as in my heart I knew to havebeen indeed a thing of verity, there was a great and wondrousearthquake.
[CONFLICT][DANGER]And the earthquake did burst the world up, along a certain great curvewhere it had weakness; and there fell into the yawning furnace of theworld, one of the great oceans; and immediately made of itself steam,and so brake upwards again, and tore the earth mightily in its swiftuprising.And thereafter there was a mist and confusion and rain upon the world.And, indeed, all very seemly put; and not to be taken as a light tale.Then, in that ending of the book, there was one that did write, havinglived in a vast later age, when the Sun had come anigh to his dying, andthe upward earth was grown quiet and cold and not good to live upon. And
[SURPRISE][MONSTER]in that time the Mighty Chasm had been calmed by the weight of anEternity, so that it was now a most deep and wondrous Valley, that didhold Seas and great Hills and Mountains; and in it were great forests ofkinds, and Lands that were good and healthful; and Places given over toFire, and to Steamings, and Sulphur Clouds; so that they held Poisonsthat had ill for Man.And Great Beasts were there down in that far depth, that none might seeever, save by a strong spy-glass. And such there were in the EarlyWorld, and had now been bred in the Ending by those inward forces ofNature which did make the Valley a place of Good Warmth; so that therewas, as it were, once more the Primal World born to give new birth untosuch olden Monsters, and to others, new and Peculiar to that Age andCircumstance.And all this, indeed, did the book give also; but constrained anddifficult to take clearly to the heart, and not like to the wise plainspeech of the early tellings; so that I must even set it out here inmine own speech.
And it did seem to me, by my reading, that Man had come at one time to agreat softness of Heart and Spirit through many ages of over-ease. Butthat the World did come to coldness and unfriendliness, by reason of theSun's slow ceasing.And there was presently, in naturalness, a Race upon the earth that werehardy, and made to fight for their lives; and did perceive that theMighty Valley that cut the World in twain, was a place of Warmth andLife; and so did make to adventure their bodies down that wondrousHeight; and were many Ages coming safe to the Bottom; but did find safeplaces in the downward way where they built them Houses, and made tolive, and begot them children; and these grew up to that life ofconstant and great climbings, and of hard workings upon The Road, whichwas the One Intent of that People; so that the book did speak of themalways as The Road Makers.And thus did they make downwards through the long years and the ages;and many generations did live and die, and saw not the reaching of theRoad down into that Great Vale that lay so monstrous deep in the World.
[HORROR]But in the end they did come there with the Road; and they were veryHardy; and they did fight with the Monsters and slay many; and theybuilt them many Cities, through great years in the Mighty Valley, anddid make the Road from City unto City along that Great Valley, even untothe Bight of the Valley. And they found here a constant darkness andShadow; for that the Sun could not make a shining around that GreatCorner. Yet, even here they ceased not to make the Road; but took itaround, and a mighty way unto the North; passing it among strange Firesand Pits that burned from out of the earth.But there was presently, such a power and horror of Monsters and EvilThings in that Valley of Shadow, that the Road Makers were made to goBackwards into the Red Light which did fill the Westward Valley, andcame from that low Sun.
[DEATH][DANGER]And they went back unto their Cities; and lived there mayhaps an hundredthousand years; and grew wise and cunning in all matters; and their WisePeople did make dealings and had experiment with those Forces which areDistasteful and Harmful unto Life; but they did this in Ignorance; forall that they had much wisdom; thinking only to Experiment, that theycome to greater knowings. But they did open a way for those Forces; andmuch harm and Pity did come thereby. And then had all People to haveRegret; yet too late.Now, presently, when an hundred thousand years had gone, or it may be agreater space; there came slowly the utter twilight of the world, as thesun to die the more; so that presently it gave but an utter gloomylight. And there grew upon many of the Peoples of the Cities of the
[DANGER][CONFLICT][ACTION][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][METAPHOR][EMOTION][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE][HORROR]Valley, a strangeness and a wildness; so that strange things were done,that had been shameful to all in the Light. And there were wanderings,and consortings with strange outward beings, and presently, many Citieswere attacked by monsters that did come from the West; and there was aPandemonium.Then was an Age of Sorrows and Fightings, and Hardenings of the Spiritand of the Heart, for all that were of good Fibre; and this did breed aDetermined Generation; and there grew up into the World a Leader; and hetook all the sound Millions; and did make a mighty Battle upon allFoulness and upon all that did harm and trouble them; and they drovetheir Enemies down the Valley, and up the Valley, and did utterlyscatter and put them to flight.Then did that Man call all his Peoples together; and did make it plainhow that the Darkness grew upon the World, and that the Foul anddreadful Powers abroad, were like to be more Horrid when a greater Gloomcame.
And he put to them that they Build a Mighty Refuge; and the Peoples didacclaim; and lo! there was built, presently, a Great House. But theGreat House was not Proper; and that Man did take all the Peoples toWander; and they came to the Bight; and there was built at last thatGreat and Mighty Pyramid.Now this is the sense and telling of that book; and but late had I readit; and talked somewhat of it with my dear friend, the MasterMonstruwacan; but not overmuch; for I had taken so sudden a mind to GO,that all else had dropped from about me. Yet, to us it did seem clear
[PROBLEM][SURPRISE][DANGER][CONFLICT]that there was no life in all the invisible upper world; and that,surely, that Great Road whereon the Silent Ones did walk, must be thatsame Road which the hardy Peoples of that age did make.And it did seem wise to the Master Monstruwacan, and unto me, that ifany should find the Lesser Redoubt, they must surely do so somewherewithin the mighty Valley; but whether The Road that led into the West,where was the Place of the Ab-humans, should bring me to it, I had noknowing; nor whether it might lie on the Northward way. And I, maybe, towander a thousand miles wrong; if, in truth, I were not into somedreadful trouble before.And, indeed, no reason of value was there to give me hope that theLesser Pyramid lay either to the West, or where the Road wentNorth-ward, beyond the House of Silence. Yet I did so feel it to be
somewhere to the North, that I had made a determination to search thatway for a great distance, the first; and if I could not come upon aught,then I should have sober thought that it did lie Westward. But in theValley someways, I had feeling of assurance that it must be; for it wasplain that the telling of the book was sound in its bottom sense; asmight be seen; for how should any live in the utter bleak and deadlychill of the silent upper world that lay an hundred miles up in thenight, hid and lost for ever.And strange is it to think of those wondrous and mighty cliffs thatgirt us about, and yet were fast held from us in the dark; so that Ihad not known of them, save for the telling of that book; though, intruth, it had been always supposed that we lived in a great deep of theworld; but, indeed, it was rather held in belief that we abode in thebed of some ancient sea, that did surely slope gradual away from us, andnot go up abrupt and savage.And here let me make so clear as I may that the general peoples had noclear thought upon any such matters; though there was something of ittaught in the schools; yet rather this and that, of diverse conclusions,as it might be thinkings of the Teachers, after much study, and someponderings. For one man, having a lack of imagining, would scoff, and
another, maybe, to take it very staidly, but some would build Fancy uponthe tellings of the Records, and make foolish and fantastic that whichhad groundings in Truth; and thus is it ever. But to the most Peoples ofthe Pyramid, there was no deep conviction nor thought of any great hidWorld afar in the darkness. For they gave attention and belief only tothat which lay to their view; nor could a great lot come to imagine thatthere had been ever any other Condition.And to them, it did seem right and meet that there should be strangethings, and fires from the earth, and an ever-abiding night, andmonsters, and matters hid and tangled much in mystery.
And very content were the most of them; though some had in them theyeast of imaginings, or the pimples of fancy upon them, and to thesethere seemed many possibilities; though the first to read out to sanity;and the second, to expect and have speech towards much that was foolishor to no purpose.And of these vague believings of the peoples, have I made hint before,and need not have much trouble to it now. Save that, with the children,as is ever the way, those olden tales had much believing; and thesimplicity of the Wise did mate with the beliefs of the Young; andbetween them did lie the Truth.And so did I make speed towards the North, having a strong surety in myheart and mind that there were but two ways to my search; for without ofthe Valley, afar up in the dead lonesomeness of the hidden world, was acold that was shapen ready to Death, and a lacking, as I must believe,of the sweet, needful air that yet did lie in plenty in that deep placeof the earth. So that, surely, the mighty Valley somewheres to hold that
[TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][SETTING][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][DANGER]other Redoubt.Yet, as I have said, I went not direct to my journey, but otherwise, forthose sound reasons which I did set down a time back.VIITHE NIGHT LANDNow, as I went towards the North and West, I steered me warily for agreat while, that I come safe of that Great Watcher of the North-West.And as I made forward, I put thought to all matters which must concernme; so far as I had imagining to see. And first I did consider the speed
[ACTION][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][RESOLUTION][RELIEF][CONTEXT][SETTING]that I should keep; and found presently that I did well to be moderate;for that I had before me a great and mighty journey; and indeed, whomight speak knowingly of the end thereof?And another matter, I did arrange; for I would make the times of mygoings forward, and the times of mine eatings and sleepings all to awise and regular fashion; that, thereby, I might go a great way, withthe less harm to my body; so that I should be strong when the need didcome for my strength. And I made in the end that I should eat and drink,at every sixth hour, and at the eighteenth hour sleep me until thetwenty-fourth.And by this means did I eat thrice in that time, and have six hours ofsleep. And this seemed very good to me, and I did strive always to
[TRANSITION]manage thus in all my great journeying in the Night Land. Yet, as may besupposed, there were times oft and many when I must watch withoutceasing, and leave my slumber unto the future; for the Land was full ofgrim and dreadful Perils.And, as doth be human, I brake my rule straightway in the beginning; forI ceased not to walk for one-and-twenty hours, hiding and creeping, asthe need did be in those places that were like to show me unto theWatcher; and when I did think upon food, it did sicken me; so that Iwould eat by and by, as I made it within my thoughts.But when one-and-twenty hours had gone, I grew very weary and somethingfaint; and was forced that I look about for some place where I mighthave rest. And, in a little while, I did see, away off, a small
fire-hole, the like of which I had passed odd times even so early. And Imade to come nigh to that part; for there would be warmth from thechill of the Night Land, and mayhaps a place dry and convenient to myslumber.And when I came anigh, I saw that it was a cheerful place, as it mightbe said, amid so much gloom; for the hole was but a few paces wide, andfull of a dull, glowing fire, that did bubble somewhat, and throw off asmall sulphur-smoke. And I sat me down, at no great way, and did placethe Diskos on the rock to my hand.
[EMOTION][MONSTER]And I moved not, awhile; but was aweary, so that I had not the courageto eat, neither to drink; but must turn me and look back to the MightyPyramid; and, in truth, though I had come a very good space, yet was Iso anigh to it, that I was both cheered and put out of heart; for it didseem close upon me, by reason of its greatness, so that I, who hadjourneyed a hard and weariful way, was shaken with the greatness of thetask that was upon me.Yet was this but one side of my heart; for it was good to feel thenearness of my Mighty Home; and I knew that there did countless millionsmake watch upon me, as I sat; yet did I make no sign; for it is not meetto make a constant farewell; but to GO. Yet was it very strange to bethus near, and to show such behaviour as were proper to one afar fromall humanity. But so it was that I ordered my ways; for it did seemproper to me; yet was I happy to know that the dear Master Monstruwacanmust, time and oft, have spied upon me through the Great Spy-Glass; andmayhaps did watch me in that moment.
[SURPRISE]And it grew in me that I did act weakly to hold off from mine Vittles,and showed foolishness before my kind friend afar; and I did ope myscrip, and take therefrom three tablets, the which I chewed and did eat;for this was a strong food, treated that it had but small bulk. Yet werethey not filling to the belly; and I made that I would drink well, thatI might feel that something was therein.And to this end, I shook from a strong and especial tube, a dust; and Icaught the dust within a little cup; and the air did make an action uponthat dust, as it were of chemistry; and the dust did boil and make afizzing in the cup, and rose up and filled it with a liquid that was ofsimple water; yet very strange to see come that way; but ordinary aftera time.And in this way, as might be seen, had I such food and drink in but alittle scrip, that might keep life within me for a great time. Yet was
it a way of discomfort, and lacking to the mouth and to the belly; but asufficient thing unto the need of the body, and good matter for athankful heart, in that dark and hungry Land.Now, when I had eaten, I did go over in their order, those things whichI did carry; for there was, beside the Diskos and that scrip of food, apouch that did contain matters various. And these, I did look into; andafterward did take out a small compass that I had been give by theMaster Monstruwacan, so that I might find of its workings without theGreat Redoubt; and, he had said unto me, that it might be that I shouldpass far off into the Night Land, and lose the Mighty Pyramid amid sogreat a Country and so plentiful a Darkness. Then, perchance, if thatancient principle did still lurk within the machine, though turned nomore to the North, but unto the Pyramid, then should it guide my feetHomeward out of the Everlasting Night, and thus have once more thatancient use which, as I do know, is common unto this age.
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][DANGER][METAPHOR][MONSTER]And this was a very cunning thing to have with me, if but it heldservice to the Earth-Current, and a rare thing, which the MasterMonstruwacan did make with his own hands and much skill and pains, froman olden one that had place within the Great Museum, and concerningwhich I have told somewhat, before this place.And I set the thing upon the ground; but it had no certain way with it;but did spin and waver constantly, and this I made to consider, andremembered that I was yet above that part where, afar in the earth didspread the greatness of the Underground Fields; and I was, haply, but alittle way off from the [DIALOGUE]"Crack"; though a mighty way above.And it pleasured me to wonder whether the dear Master Monstruwacan didbehold how that I made test with the compass; for the light was goodfrom the fire-hole; and the Great Spy-Glass had a great strength. Yet,had I no certainty; for, as I did know, from much watchings, there wasno surety in the searching of the Land, by the Glass; for there was oftplainness where you did think surely none should see, and anon adullness where might be thought that the sight went gaily. And this may
[RELIEF]be plain to all; for the wavering of the lights from the strange fireswas not to be accounted to rule; but made a light here, and a darknessthere, and then did change about, oddly. Moreover, there were smokes andmists that did come upwards from the earth, in this place and in that;and had somewhiles a greatness; but oft were small, and did lurk low,and had no power but to confuse the sight.And, presently, I did put by the compass in my pouch, and made tocompose myself unto sleep. But here would I now set down how that, inthe end, after I had gone many days' journeyings outward from the MightyPyramid, I did indeed find it to draw the Northward part of the needleunto it; and this was a comfort and a pleasure to my spirit; moreover,if ever I did get back, as I did think, it would be a matter for greatinterest unto the Master Monstruwacan; yet, in verity, were there othermatters that should hold him more; for he was right human, as all shouldknow.
[SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION]And, moreover, concerning this same compass, I did find a fresh thing;for, after a yet greater time, as I shall set out in a due place, if Ido but remember, which doubt is ever my fear to fret me, I came amighty way from the Redoubt, and, lo! fearing that I might indeed losethat, My Great Home, in the Darkness of the World, I did pull out thatstrange wonder of the needle, that I might have comfort by its homewardpointing. And I did discover a new power in the night; for the machinedid point no more directwards unto the Great Redoubt; but was a pointunto the Westwards; so that I had knowledge that some Great Power afarin the Darkness of the World did sway upon it; and I had a childlikewonder that this might be, in truth, that same Power of the North, ofwhich the books, and my Memory-Dreams did tell. And, indeed, no doubtshould there be upon this matter; yet who might not have doubt in thattime, that they should perceive after an eternity, that ancientNorthward Force swaying that small servant unto an olden obedience. And
it was, as it were, a revealing unto me, how that to know within thebrain is one matter; but to have knowledge within the heart is another;for I had always known concerning this Northward Force; but yet had notknown with the true meaning of Knowledge.And yet one other matter there was to cause doubt, at that moment ofthis new knowing; for it came to me that maybe the power of that LesserRedoubt did begin to act upon the machine, even as the Earth-Current ofthe Great Pyramid did hold yet a strong drawing upon the needle; andwere this so, then did I not surely begin to stand anigh unto myJourney's end; for that less power of the Lesser Redoubt could have noimpudence to pull, save that I had come to a closeness with it.Yet, in truth, as I do now have knowledge, it was the North that drew;and I do seem to make a great telling about this little matter; but howelse shall I show to you mine inward mind, and the lack of knowledge andlikewise the peculiar knowings that did go to the making of that time,and the Peoples thereof, which is but to say the same thing twice over.And now, as I did say, I made to compose myself for sleep; and to thisend, I took a cloak-matter which did cross my shoulder and hip, andwrapt it about me, and lay down there in the darkness of the Night, bythat strange fire-hole.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE]And I lay the Diskos beside me, within the cloak; for it was, indeed, mycompanion and friend in bitter need; so that I had pleasure to feel thestrange thing anigh to me. And as I did lie there, in those moments thatdo drowse the Soul, as it were that they do proceed as breath out of themouth of Sleep, I had a half-knowing that the aether did surge about me;and I doubt not but that there had watched my every doing, many of theMillions, and had been humanly stirred, at my commending of my spiritunto sleep; and thus did shake the aether of the world about me, withtheir unity of sympathy.And, mayhaps, I had some little knowing of this thing, as I did pass,drowsy, into slumber; and it is surely like that I slept the better forit. Moreover, I was wondrous tired and worn, and thus did sleep verystrong and heavy; yet I mind me that my last dim thinkings were uponthat sweet maid I did go to find. And in slumber did I have speech with
[DANGER][SURPRISE][EMOTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][WEAPON][TRANSITION]her in dreams, and a strange happiness about me, and all seeming to betouched by fairy-light, and freed from the sorrow of life.And it was from a sweet and lovely sleeping, such as this, that I waswaked suddenly by a great and mighty sound; and I came instant to apossessing of my senses; and I knew that the mighty Voice of theHome-Call did go howling across the Night. And, swift and silent, I slidthe cloak from about me, and took the haft of that wondrous Diskos intomine hand.And I did look towards the Pyramid, quickly, for a message; for I had asure knowledge that there had a great Need arisen, and that some Terrorcame towards me out of the Dark; else they had never waked all the NightLand to a knowing that an human was abroad out of the Mighty Refuge.
And even as I did peer towards the Great Redoubt, I could not abide tokeep my gaze entire that way; but did take a large and fearful look allabout me; yet could make to see nothing; and so did stare, eager andanxious, afar into the upper blackness of the Night, where did shinethat Final Light of the Tower of Observation; and the same whilecrouched, and holding the Diskos, and making to glance across myshoulders, and to watch for the message, and all in the same moment.And then, afar upwards in the prodigious height, I did see the great,and bright and quick darting flashes of a strange green fire, and didknow that they spelled to me in the Set-Speech a swift warning that agrey monster, that was a Great Grey Man, had made scent of me in thedark, and was even in that moment of time, crawling towards me throughthe low moss-bushes that lay off beyond the fire-hole to my back. Andthe message was sharp; and bade me to leap into the bushes unto my left;and to hide there; so that I might chance to take the thing to anadvantage.And, as may be thought, they had scarce flashed the tale unto me; but Iwas gone in among the shadows of a clump of the moss-bush that did growanigh; and I sweat with a strange terror, and a cold and excited shakingof the heart; yet was my spirit set strong to conquer.
[SURPRISE][DANGER][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][PROBLEM][HORROR]And lo! as I did crouch there, hidden, I saw something come very quietout of the bushes that did grow beyond the fire-hole; and it was great,and crept, and was noways coloured but by greyness in all its parts. Andthe glare from the fire-hole did seem to trouble it; so that it looked,laying its head to the ground, and spying along the earth, in a strangeand Brutish fashion; that it might oversee the glare of the fire-hole.Yet, I doubt that it saw beyond the fire with plainness; for, in amoment, it crept swift in among the bushes again, and came out towardsthe edge of the fire-hole in another place; and this it did thrice untomy left, and thrice unto my right; and every time did lay its head tothe earth, and spy along; and did hunch its shoulders, and thrustforward the jaw horridly and turn the neck, as a very nasty beast mightgo, wanton.
Now, as you may think, this manner of the Beast-Man did shake my couragemightily; for I did think each time that it did go inward among themoss-bushes, that it had made discovery of me, and would make to take mein the back, from out of the dark of the bushes; and this was anuncomfortable thing to consider, as others might think also, had anybeen there in the bush with me. And then, in truth, did that same swiftsense of mine Hearing, prove helpful to my saving; for, behold, thething did go back into the moss-bushes, after that last coming out; anddid seem to make as it had made a failing to discover me, and had nofurther intent, save to return unto the Night; and I had this thoughttruly in mine heart, and for maybe a minute; and then, lo! within mysoul a voice did speak plain, and did warn me that the thing did make agreat compass among the moss-bushes about the fire-hole, having madediscovery of me; and it did go warily to take me in the back, from theother side.Now, when I heard this voice speak within my spirit, I had knowledgethat the dear Master Monstruwacan made watch from the Tower ofObservation, and did send the speech with his brain-elements, having inmind that I had the Night-Hearing. And I trusted the speech; for in the
[MONSTER]same moment of time there did beat all about me in the Night the solemnthrob of the Master-Word, as that it had been added with speed, to giveinstant assurance. And I leapt quick from that clump of the moss-bush,unto another, and crouched, and made a watch all about me; and kept theears of my spirit open, knowing that the Master Monstruwacan did alsowatch all, for me.And, suddenly, I saw a little moving of a bush that grew to the back ofthose bushes in which I had been hid; and there came out of the bushthat moved, a great grey hand, and moved the moss of the clump where Ihad been, as it were that something peered out of the moving bush. Andthere followed the great grey head of the Grey Man, and the head wentinto the clump of the moss-bush where I had been.
[ACTION][DANGER][DEATH][WEAPON][METAPHOR][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE]And I knew that I must strike now; and I leapt, and smote with theDiskos; and the thing fell upon its side, and the great grey legs cameout of the hither bushes, and twitched and drew upwards; but the headremained in the bush where I had been hid. And I stood away from thething whilst it died; and in mine hand the Diskos did spin and sendforth fire; as it were that it did live, and did know that it had slaina great and horrid monster.And presently the Grey Man was dead; and I went away from those bushes,unto the far side of the fire-hole. And I stood with the Diskos heldhigh and spinning and sending out fire, that they within the MightyPyramid might know that I had slain the Beast-Man; for it might be thatit lay too much in the shadow for them to look upon.
But the Master Monstruwacan spoke not again to me; for, indeed, it wasnot meet to do so, except it might save me from a sure danger; for, asyou may know from my past tellings, there were Powers of the Night Landthat did hearken unto such matters; and it was like enough that therehad been overmuch done, even thus, for my further safety. Yet the thingcould not be helped.And now that I was a little calmed, and eased from my fear, I could knowthat all that the aether of the night was disturbed by the gladness ofthe millions within the Great Redoubt; so that it was plain how great amultitude had given note unto the fight; and their hearts to beat insweet sympathy and natural fear; so that I did feel companied andbefriended; though, as it may be thought, something shaken yet about theheart.Now, in a little time, I did gather unto me my wits and had myself toorder; and I looked to see how the hours did go, and I found that I hadsurely slumbered through ten hours. And I reproached myself; for,
[RESOLUTION]indeed, I had slept oversound by reason of my having lacked a regularway and time, as I had with a proper wisdom made to be my rule. And Iresolved that I would obey the wit of my Reason in all the future time,and make to eat and rest in due season, as you will wot that I didbefore intend.Then, with a self-reproachful heart, I went around the small fire-hole,and caught up my cloak and other matters. And I turned me towards theMighty Pyramid, and did look once upwards along all the great slope,where it did go measureless into the far blackness of the EverlastingNight; and I made no salutation; for I had so resolved, as you willknow; moreover, I desired not to call forth any unneedful disturbance ofthe aether of the world, which indeed must be, did I make to stir theemotions of the Millions.
[DANGER][WEAPON]And I turned me then away, and went off into the night, going swift andcautious, and bearing the Diskos cunningly and almost, as it were, witha love for that strange and wondrous weapon that had so befriended me,and slain the foul Grey Man with one stroke. And I had feeling that itdid know me, and had a comradeship for me; and I doubt none willunderstand this; save, it might be, they of the olden days that didcarry one strong sword always. Yet was the Diskos more than the sword;for it did in truth seem to live with the fire and the flame of theEarth-Current that did beat within it.And it was well acknowledged within the Great Redoubt, that none mighttouch the Diskos of another; for that the thing went crustily, as itmight be said, in the hands of a stranger; and if any made foolishnessof this knowledge, and did persist much to such an handling, or makingto use, the same would presently act clumsy with the weapon, and come toan hurt; and this was a sure thing, and had been known maybe an hundredthousand years; or perchance a greater time.
And by this it doth seem wise to believe that there did grow always anaffinity between the nature of the man--which doth, as ever, include thewoman--and the Diskos that he did use in his Practice; and because ofthis known thing, and that the place would elsewise be lumbered witholden weapons of those that did die, it was a Law and Usage that therewas placed with the Dead, the Diskos of the Dead, there upon The LastRoad in the Country Of Silence, and was thus made to give back unto theEarth-Current, the power that did lie in it. And this doth seem to acareless thinker, as it were that I told once again those olden customsof the Ancient Folk; but this is otherwise, and had a sound reason toit; yet, if you do so believe, I doubt not but that a right humansentiment was something at the bottom, which is proper; for it is meetthat Love should mate with Wisdom to mother Comfort in our sorrows; andit is a warm thing to do aught for our dead; and none may say nay tothis.Now, as I did go onwards into the Night Land, looking ever to thisshadow and to that, it may be conceived how my heart would stir withswift fear, at this and that; and that my body would oft quiver to leapaside; and as swift discover that naught assailed.And so did I go forward, and always with imaginings and wondersconcerning what manner of uncouth Being or Brute might come out of thedarknesses all about. Yet, in all that time, there was a certain
[EMOTION]proudness of the heart, that I did come safe out of the power of theGrey Man, and did surely slay him. But, truly, it were well that thepraise be considered, and not overmuch given unto me; for I had died asI slept, but that they of the Great Redoubt, had made a watch over me,and waked me unto my saving.Now, presently, as I walked, I grew something faint, and had knowledgethat I did foolishly; for, indeed, I should have eat after my fight; yetmay I be forgiven for this forgetting, in that I had been much shakedand put about.And I sat me down in a little clear place among the bushes, and did eatthree of the tablets, and did once more shake forth the dust that didturn in the air to a natural water by a proper and natural chemistry ofthese matters. And after I had eat, I sat a little while, and did think,
[MONSTER]and did look upwards at the great slope of the Pyramid in the night; andall the time did I listen with mine ears and with my spirit; and keptthe Diskos across my knees, and looked this way and that, very frequent;but nothing came anigh.And so I rose presently, and went onwards, and walked for six hourstowards the North and the West. And I made much to the West, for alittle, that I might come clear of the North-West Watcher. Yet, after aspace, I made to do foolishly; for I changed my mind about, and keptsomething more towards the North, so that I should have a surer sight ofthat Monster.
And this was, in truth, a rash and naughty thing to consider; for if Iwere but seen, then should that grim Brute make a signal unto the EvilPowers, and I be met swiftly with destruction. But surely the heart is astrange and wayward thing, and given to quick fears, and immediatelyunto great and uncountable rashnesses. And so I did go forward unwiselyto the Northward of a safe and proper going; and it may be that aninfluence was upon me, and drew me thatwards; but who shall say.Now, a great time I walked, and made a halt upon every sixth hour, anddid eat and drink, and look a little unto the monstrous towering of theGreat Redoubt; and afterwards make strong mine heart, and go forwardagain. And always I did go warily, and chiefly among the low moss-bush;
but sometimes out upon stony ground, and oft across places where sulphurdid puff somewhat from the ground in a low smoke, very strong in thenostrils and not liked inwardly.And as I made onwards, I looked always to my right and to my left, andanon to the rear; yet made a constant observation of the Mighty Watcher,that I did begin to draw nigh unto. And oft did I stoop to crawl, and myhands did bleed somewhat; but after I was troubled so, I put on thegreat gloves that made complete the grey armour, and so was shod properto such journeying.And, presently, when eighteen hours did have passed since that my suddenawakening to the peril of the Grey Man, I did search about for a placeto slumber; for I would keep wisely unto my ruling, and go not over longlacking of sleep; and by this planning I should be the less like tosleep oversound, and so should set my spirit to listen whilst I didsleep; and by so much as my spirit should serve me with faith, should Ihave safety. And this thing is plain, and wants not more to the saying
[EMOTION][ACTION][RELIEF][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]thereof.And I came presently unto a sudden place where the land did go downwardsbrokenly, as that it had been burst a great while gone by the inwardfires; and I looked downwards over the edge of that place, and wentround about it, and did see presently a ledge upon the far side, thatwas difficult to come upon; yet a place of some little safety to anythat might go down to it; for it was awkward to see, and did any monsterseek to come at me, I should have chance of warning; and might godownwards a greater way in time to my salvation.And by this determination, I abode; and came down to that place withlabour; but was cheerful of heart that I had found so sure a shelter.And I eat my three tablets, and drank the water that I did get from thepowder. And so made to compose my body to sleep. Yet, at this time, a
[SETTING]thought did come to me, and I made calculation afresh; and laughedsomewhat at that my poor counting; for, indeed, I had thought to eat butthrice in the twenty and four hours; yet by my arranging, I was made,indeed, to eat four times, as you shall see immediately by a littlethought. And this thing came more strong upon my spirit than any mightthink; for I did eat overmuch for the lasting of the food; though, inverity, it was but little to my belly; as you must all think, and havesympathy for my discomfort.And I considered a little, and had determined that I should afterwardsin my journeying, eat but two of the tablets to my meal; and this was awise thought, and like much wisdom, a discomposing thing. But so it was,and I set it down that you may know the arranging of my ways at thattime.
[SURPRISE]Now, in all this while of meditation, I had been setting my cloak aboutme, and was fast set to my sleeping; for I had walked a weary way. And Ilay me down upon my left side, with my back to the rock, which didoverhang me something above; so that I was contented to feel hid fromthings that might pass by in the Night. And I had the cloak about me,and the Diskos close against my breast, within the cloak, and my headupon my pouch and upon my scrip.And as I lay thus a moment easeful, I could see that so mighty was theuprising of the Great Pyramid that it was not hid from me even thus, butdid stand upward into the night, and did shine, and was plain to be seenabove the further edge of that deep place where I did lie.
And I fell upon sleep, looking upward at that Final Light, where, asmight be, the Master Monstruwacan did bend the Great Spy-Glass upon mylonesomeness, as I lay there upon the ledge.And this was a thought of sweet comfort upon which to slumber; the whichI did; but my spirit lay wakeful within my breast, and did listenthrough the night; and harked for all evil matters and things that didmake to come anigh. But also my spirit did whisper unto Naani as I wentinto sleep; and so passed I into dreams.Now, it may be thought that I did act with a strange valiance, in that Icomposed my body so properly to slumber, and with but a little troubleof the heart concerning the coming of monsters. And in truth this hathseemed somewhat so to me, thinking since that time; but I do but set thething that is truth; and make not to labour to an illusion of truth; andso must tell much that doth seem improper to the Reality. Yet must all
bear with me, and have understanding of the hardness of setting forthwith true seeming the honesty of Truth, which, in verity, is betterserved oft times by timely and cunning lies. And so shall you understandthis matter so well as I.And presently my spirit waked me there in the half dark of the NightLand; and I looked swift about me, and upwards, and saw nothing tofear. Then did I peer at my dial; and made to discover that I had sleptfull over six quiet hours; and by this I knew the reason of mineawaking; for it was so great impressed upon me by mine inward sense andbeing. And this you shall understand, someways, who have thought, ere
sleep, to wake to a certain time of the morning; and by understandingshall you believe and give me all your kind harking and human sympathy.And I made to have a smartness of going, which is ever hard to the newlywaked; and I eat two tablets, the while my belly did cry out for anwholesome and proper filling; but I drank some of the water, and so didease somewhat of my hunger.Then did I wind my cloak to its shape, and put upon me my gear, whichwas the scrip and the pouch, and the Diskos to my hip; and I clomb outfrom that place of rest. Yet, before I did come rightly up into theopen, I peered about, and made some surety that no evil Brute was anigh.
And then I gat me out, and stood upon my feet, and looked for a littleupwards at the mighty slope of the Great Redoubt, which did seem yetvery nigh unto me, by reason of it being so monstrous in bigness.And I wondered whether in that moment the Master Monstruwacan did lookdown upon me, with the Great Spy-Glass. And afterwards I turned awayswiftly, and went on into the Night Land; for it did always make meshaken with lonesomeness to look upon my Great Home. And so I did goforward with a strong and uncaring stride; but grew presently toquietness, and to have back the proper caution of my going. Yet had I
[TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE]not gone all foolishly, for I had taken the Diskos from my hip, erethis; so that I possessed it handily.Now there is one matter which shall seem but a small and naturaloccurring unto you; yet was strong upon me in that time; and this thingwas that I did begin now to see the Night Land from the new outlookingof my distance from the Mighty Pyramid. And it was as that a man of thisday did go from the earth to travel among the stars, and lo! should henot find them to shift upon his vision; so that the Great Bear and thisand that shaping of the star clusterings, should make a new order, as hedid wander onwards; and so should he find that there was naught that wastruly fixed, as he did before then think; but all to alter accordingunto the place whence the looking! And this thing shall be plain unto
you, though no thought be put to the matter; for it is of an evidentverity that doth need not argument to expound. And so shall you havememory of me, there a-wander among those strange shapings and wonders ofthat grim Land, the which I had never but supposed to seem but as mymemory did retain them, from the lookings of all my life within theGreat Redoubt. And so it was; and ever there did this thing and thatopen out to a new view, and the Night Land take to itself a constant newaspect to mine eyes which had never until that time had but the onefixed vision of the same.And you shall understand with me how that when, about the fourteenthhour of that day's travel, I did draw very nigh unto the monstrousWatcher of the North-West, it did seem so utter strange from this freshaspect that I had been like to think that I did see a new Monster. For,
in truth, when I did come at last to creep to within a mile of it, amongthe low moss-bushes, I was confounded that the mighty chin did comeforward towards the Great Redoubt, even as the upward part of a vastcliff, which the sea doth make hollow about the bottom; for it did hangout into the air above the glare of the fire from the Red Pit, as it hadbeen a thing of Rock, all scored and be-weathered, and dull red andseeming burned and blasted by reason of the bloody shine that beatupward from the deep of the Red Pit.And by the way in which I do tell upon it, you shall know that I didsurely view it something from the side at this immediate time; for, intruth, it was then that I did draw the nearer; and, moreover, I was themore astonished at this viewing, than I had been to the front; for itwas so utter strange, and shapen so different from the Brute that didhang in my memory.And a great time I did lie there upon my belly; and shaken by a fear ofthe Beast; yet emboldened, as you may conceive, by having come to theside; and being hopeful in my heart that I was very secure within sogreat a shadow and the thick sheltering of the moss-bushes.And surely it was that I did creep more nigh, the while that I did look;for presently I had a very plain seeing of the Great Monster; and didknow where I had gotten to, and thereby did acknowledge unto myself thatthis was an utter foolishness; and like, for all that any might say, tolead unto destruction. Yet, as all must know, there was the first fear,
[PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION]and the ceasing of this fear, as I did wot that I was so little a thingto heed out there in the shadows. And presently a gaining of courage,and the prick of my Being that did crave to see clear this exceedingWonder. And so was I come close, more or less, having gone far upon myhands and knees; yet sometimes to pause; but afterwards on again.Now by this nearness, I was the more truly able to perceive how that theBulk of the Watcher did rise up into the Night, like a Hill; and thecolour was mostly black, save and indeed where it did face to the redshine of the Pit; and concerning this I have done telling.
[METAPHOR][CONFLICT][CONTEXT][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][MONSTER]And so did I lie there, and stare a great while, parting a small hole inthe moss-bushes that I might spy through the same. And the thing wassquat there, and might have root within the earth, so it did seem tomine imaginings, as I did stare with a dumb wonder. And there weremonstrous warts upon the thing, and indents and a mighty ruggedness andlumpings; as it were that it did be pimpled with great boulders thatwere inbred within that monstrous hide. And where the shine from thePit of Red Fire did strike upon these, they did stand out into thedarkness away from the skin, as you of this Age shall see mountains ofthe moon catch a bright fire from the Sun, and show plain upon the nightof the moon.
[TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE][FLASHBACK][EMOTION]Now, as I have set down, I did lie there and look a great while; and itcame presently to me that there was unease within the Mighty Pyramid,among the Millions; for I did feel the aether of the world to bedisturbed by their distress; and so had a knowing that they had acunning wareness concerning the place where I did hide among themoss-bushes.And the thrilling in the night did bring a wisdom into my head; for, inverity, as I have said, this was a foolish matter that I was upon. And Igat a thought that the Watcher might have an awaredness of the troubleof the Multitudes; and, indeed, for all that I did know, it had a fullknowledge of all my wandering; though concerning this, I did thinkotherwise truly in my heart; as is a most human and proper way to makecomfortable the spirit, where Doubt can have no ease from Reason.And I made that I would go backwards to a good distance from theWatcher, and go forward again upon my journeying, if but that I comesafe from so unwise an adventuring. And as I did begin to return, it was
[HORROR]to me as that all my senses were newly awake; for I had a sudden knowingthat I was within the atmosphere, should I not call it, of the Monster.And I gat an abrupt and horrid shaking of the spirit; for I did feel inverity that my soul had come too anigh; and that the Beast had a sureknowledge concerning me; yet did make to my destruction with no haste;but after that way and fashion that did seem proper unto it.And this feeling you shall understand the better, maybe, when I do tellthat it was to me as that the air all about me was full of a quiet andsteadfast life and keen intelligence that I did believe to come forthfrom the Watcher on every side; so that I did feel as one already withinthe gaze of some Great and Evil Power.Yet, though I had a great terror upon me, I made no foolish haste; butcommanded my soul to courage, and put a guard upon my way of going, andso made a very quiet journey for maybe two full miles; and afterwardsdid allow myself something more of haste; for I was now grown easier inmy spirit; and felt apart from the spirit of the Great Watcher.
[EMOTION]And after a longer while, I did leave that hill of watchfulness to myrear; and was gone onward into the night; yet, as may be known, with avague unease and trouble to my heart, and a swift and frequent turningto learn surely that no Evil Thing came after me. For, as you may know,I could nowise have forgetting, concerning that great quiet Life whichdid seem to be living in all the air around that Mighty Bulk. For it hadbeen all about me in the night, as I have told, and I to feel that I hadbeen surely discovered! And thus shall you know how shaken was myspirit, in verity.
Now, presently, at the eighteenth hour of that day's travel, I ceasedfrom my journeying, that I might eat and drink; and I did sit a littlewhile, and looked back upon the strange and monstrous thing which I hadcome beyond. And the great humped back and vast shoulders of theWatching-Thing rose up into the night, black and cumbrous against thered shine of the Pit. And thus, as you shall think, had that Brutelooked always unto the Mighty Pyramid, through Eternity, and did ceasenot from watching, and was steadfast and silent and alone; and none didunderstand.And after I had eat, and drunk some of the water, I went onward for afull matter of six hours more; being minded to have no sleep until I hadput a great way between me and the Watcher. And in this part of my
journey did I come to The Place Where The Silent Ones Kill, as it wasnamed in the Maps. And I observed a very wondrous caution, and went awayfrom it a little, unto the North, where I did see at a distance theshinings of fire-holes; the which did promise me warmth through myslumber.And here you must know that the Place Where The Silent Ones Kill was anutter bare place, where all did seem of rock, and no bush did seem togrow thereon; so that a man might not come to any hiding; though, intruth, there might be some hole here or there; yet was none shown in anymap within the Pyramid; neither did there seem to be any such to me, asI did creep there among the moss-bushes to the Northward of the Place,and look constant and fearful towards it; so that I should see quicklywhether any Silent One did move across all the grey quiet of that rockyplain.And concerning this same Place Where The Silent Ones Kill, it were wellto make an explanation how that there was always a little andfar-spreaded light over all that lonesomeness; and the light wassomething grey-seeming; as it were that a lichen might grow upon therocks, and send out a little uncomfortable glowing, even as certainmatters do in these times, if you do but know the place and the time toseek them. Yet was the light exceeding weak, and very cold and dismal,
and did seem truly to show naught with a sureness; so that it did appearto the eye, if one did look fixedly, that there were shadows that didmove here or there, as it were of silent beings; and none might know, intruth, whether this shaping of the greyness was to the clouding of theReason, or that the eye did see of Reality. Yet, if one did look withthe Great Spy-Glass, then might there be some surety and plainness; andlikewise was it so, if one did have come sufficient anigh to thatuncomfortable Place, even as I then did be. And so you shall conceivehow that I did slide very quiet from bush unto bush; for I had alway inall my life had a very dread fear of this place; and oft did I peer outinto the dim grey light of the lonesome plain unto my left; and wouldthink sometimes to perceive the shapes of the Silent Ones stood vagueand watchful; yet, on the instant, to see nothing.And thus I did go onward, and came presently to a part where the greyplain did stretch out a bareness into the Night Land to my front; sothat my way ended, unless I did make a long passing round about.
And I sat there among the moss-bushes, and did consider, and lookt outcunningly through a spy-hole of the bush in which I did sit. And Iperceived that the part of the plain which did jut bareness into theLand before me had no greatness of size; but might be passed swiftly inbut a little running. And this thing should save me a wearisome goinground; so that I made to consider it with a serious mind; and all thetime did I search the bare greyness before me, and saw presently that itwas surely empty.And I made to adventure myself across, running very swift until I hadcome to the far side. And lo! as I did go to rise up out of the bush,
[EMOTION][DANGER][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]mine eyes were opened, as it were, and I saw that there was somethingamid the constant greyness; and I fell quickly into the bush; and didsweat very chill; but yet did haste to look.And I saw now that there were, in truth, matters that did show vagueupon that part of the plain that was before me. And I did peer veryconstant and anxious, and, behold, I saw that there was facing me, agreat line of quiet and lofty figures, shrouded unto their feet; andthey moved not, neither made they any sound; but stood there amid thegreyness, and did seem to make an unending watch upon me; so that myheart went unto weakness, and I did feel that there was no power of themoss-bushes to hide me; for, in verity, they that stood so silent werecertain of the Silent Ones; and I was very nigh to the Place ofDestruction.Now, I moved not for a time; but was made stiff by the greatness of myfear. Yet I was presently aware that the Silent Ones came not towards
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][GHOST]me; but stood quiet; as that they did mind not to slay me, if but I didkeep from that Place.And there grew therefrom a little courage into mine heart, and I obeyedmy spirit, and took an hold of my strength and went slowly backward inthe bushes. And presently I was come a long way off. Yet troubled anddisturbed, and very strict to my going.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][DANGER][HORROR]And I made a great circling about that place where the plain of theSilent Ones did come outward; and so did gain to the North-West; and wasthence something the happier in my heart; and went easily, and oft uponmy feet; yet making a strong watching to every side.And so I came at the last to a time when I had walked throughfour-and-twenty weariful hours; and was eager that I should come to asafe place for my sleep; yet did lack a happy belief of safety, in thatI had come twice anigh to so grim trouble; and unsure I was that I didnot be secretly pursued in the night. And this you shall believe to be avery desperate feeling; and a plight to make the heart sick, and to longwith a great longing for the safety of that mine Home. Yet had I putmyself to the task; and truly I did never cease to the sorrowfulremembering of that utter despair that had sounded to me plain in thelast calling of mine own love, out of all the mystery of the night. And
[EMOTION]but to think upon this was to grow strong in the spirit; yet to have afresh anxiousness that I did the more surely keep my life within me, andso come to that maid's salvation.Now, as you shall mind, I had spied the shine of certain fire-holessomewhat to the Northward, and had thought to make thereabouts a placefor my sleep; for, in truth, there was a bitterness of cold in all theair of night that did surround me; and I was warmed nigh to a slowhappiness, by thinking upon a fire to lie beside; and small wonder, asyou shall say.And I made presently a strong walking unto that place where did glow inthe night the shine of the fire-holes, as I did well judge them to be;and so was like to have come over-swiftly upon my death, as you shallpresently see; for, as I came anigh to the first, I perceived that thelight came upward out of a great hollow among the moss-bushes, and thatthe fire-hole burned somewhere in the deep of the hollow; so that I didbut look upon the shine thereof.Yet very eager was I to come to that warmth; and I made more of hastethan care, as I did hint; and so came very swift to the top of thehollow; yet was still hidden by the kindness of the moss-bushes.
[DANGER][PROBLEM][HORROR]And as I made to thrust forward out of the bushes, that I might look andgo downward into the hollow, there rose up to me the sound of a verylarge voice, and deep and husky. And the voice was a dreadful voice thatdid speak as that it said ordinary things, and in a fashion so monstrousas that it were that a house did speak, and, in verity, this is astrange thing to say; yet shall it have the truth of my feelings andterror in that moment.And I drew back swiftly from discovering myself; and was then all fearedto move, or to make to go more backward, lest that I should giveknowledge that I was come anigh. And likewise did I shiver lest that Iwas even then perceived. And so shall you have something of the utter
[DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][HORROR]fear that did shake me. And I abode there, very quiet, and moved not fora very great space; but did sweat and shake; for there was a monstroushorridness in the voice that did speak.And as I crouched there within the moss-bushes, there came again thelarge voice, and it was answered by a second voice; and thereupon therearose, as it did seem, the speech of Men that must have the bigness ofelephants, and that did have no kindness in all their thoughts; but wereutter monstrous. And the speech was slow, and it rose up out of thehollow, brutish and hoarse and mighty. And I would that I could make you
[TRANSITION][EMOTION][HORROR]to hear it, and that you could but borrow mine ears for a little moment,and forthwith be shaken with that utter horror and an afraidness, evenas was I.Now, presently, there was a very long quiet, and I ceased at last alittle from mine over-fear; and later I did calm somewhat; so that Imade to shift my position, which was grown very uneasy.And there was still no sound from the hollow. Wherefore, having a littleboldness and much curiousness, and these despite my great fearfulness, Iput forth mine hand, very cautious, and did move the mossbush a littlefrom my face. And I went forward upon the earth, and did lie upon my
[SURPRISE]belly; and was by this so close upon the edge of that place, that I wasabled to look downwards.And you shall know that I peered down into that great hollow, and didsee a very strange and horrid sight; for, in truth, there was a largefire-hole in the centre of that place, and all about the sides therewere great holes into the slopes of the hollow, and there were great menlaid in the holes, so that I might see a great head that did show out tomy sight here, from one of those holes, and would seem to be that of amonstrous man heavy with sleep. And there I would see but the buttocksof another, as that he did curl himself inward to his brutishslumbering. And so was it all about; and to my memory there were maybe ascore of these holes; yet had I not time to the counting, as you shallsee. For, after that I had made but a glance, as it were, at these
[DANGER][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]sleeping and utter monstrous men, I perceived that there sat beyond thefire-hole, three great men, and they were each greater than elephants,and covered a large part with a stiff and horrid hair, that did be of areddish seeming. And there were upon them great segs and warts, as thattheir skin had been hides that had never known covering. And there wasbetween them the body of a mighty hound, so big as an horse, that theydid skin; and I judged that this beast was one of those fearsome bruteswhich we did call the Night Hounds.Yet, as I should set down, they did nothing in that time in which Ilookt at them; but did sit each with a sharp and monstrous bloody stonein his fist, and did look to the ground, as that they heeded not theearth or the food that they did prepare; but did listen to some outwardsound. And you shall know that this brought to me a very swift and
[EMOTION][DANGER]sudden terror; for I perceived now the why of their long silence; for,in verity, they had an unease upon them, being subtly aware that one wasanigh, even as are the brute beasts in this manner and kind, as all doknow.And I made to draw back, and win unto safety, if indeed this thing wereto be done. And as I moved me, it may be that I shook a little earthinto the hollow; for there was, indeed, a little sifting of dry dustbelow me, as I did wot, being very keen to hear, by reason of my fright.And immediately did those three monstrous men look upward, and did seemto me to stare into mine eyes, as I did lie there hid amid themoss-bushes. And I was so put in fear that I did clumsily, and sent
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][HORROR]another siftering of dust downward, as I did strive to go backward swiftand quiet from the edge. And all the time I did look through the bushesvery fixedly into the eyes of the giants; and lo, their eyes did shinered and green, like to the eyes of animals. And there rose up a roarfrom them that did nigh slay my soul with the horridness of the noise.And at that roaring, all the giants that did lie in the holes did awake,and began to come outward into the hollow.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]Now, I was surely lost, and given over to destruction; for they hadpossessed me immediately, but that in that moment, as I went backward,the earth gave behind me, and I fell into a hole among the moss-bushesto my back, and I made first to come out very hurried, and all chokedwith a dust of sand and ash; but in a moment I was sane to know that Ihad come to a sudden hiding-place; and I lay very still and stroveneither to cough nor to breathe. And well for me, I came to so close ahiding; for there were all about me the sounds of monstrous footsteps,running, that seemed to shake the ground; though maybe this to be animagining bred of my fear.And shoutings of great voices there were; and the thudding of huge feetall about; and the noises of the bushes rustling; but presently thesearch drew away to the Southward. And I perceived that there had surelyfought for me some power of good fortune. And I came up out of the hole,
[EMOTION]very cautious, and shaken and a moment weak with the beating of myheart; yet with a lovely thankfulness for my salvation. And I gat meabout, and went swift through the moss-bushes to the North and West forthree hours, and ceased not to run upon my hands and knees. And by thattime was I come a great way, and did have a surety in my heart ofpresent safety.And I ceased to run, and lay quiet; for, in truth, I did near swoon awaywith the hardness of my travel. And indeed as you shall know, I had
slept not for seven-and-twenty hours, and had scarce ceased to labour inall that time. Moreover, I had eat not, neither drunk, for nine hours;and so shall you conceive that I was truly a-weary.And, presently I did slumber there as I lay, and all abroad to anymonstrous thing that should come along. Yet did I wake unharmed, andfound by my dial there had gone by a full ten hours, the while that Idid lie there and sleep unwotting. And I was sore perished with the cold
of the Night; for I had not the warmth of my cloak about me, and mybelly was very empty.And I stood me up, and did peer about for any dread matter, but allseemed proper, and I began to stamp my feet against the earth, as thatI would drive it from me, and this I do say as a whimsy, and I swungmine arms, as often you shall do in the cold days; and so I waspresently something warmed. And I dismantled my cloak, and wrapped itabout me, and did feel that the Diskos was safe to my hip.Then did I sit me down, and did glow a little with relish, in that Ishould now eat four of the tablets; for, indeed, these were my properdue, by reason of my shiftless fasting ere I came so wotless to myslumbering. And the memory of that eating doth live with me now, so that
[TRANSITION][EMOTION]I could near to smile; for the eagerness of mine inwards was proper andhuman; yet were even four tablets but a little matter to so great anemptyness; and I drank a double portion of the water, that I might makeless the void. And this thing was seemly; for, indeed, there were twoportions due unto me.And when I had eat and drunk, I did fold the cloak once more to shapeacross my shoulder, as I did carry it; and afterwards I took the Diskosinto my hand, and went forward again to the North and West.Yet, as you shall know, I did pause a little in the beginning, and peerto every side for any close danger; and then did look more abroad ofthat place; but could nowhere see any matter to have me to immediatefear. And afterwards, I looked a little while at the monstrous humped
[SURPRISE][MONSTER]back of the Watcher of the North-West; and it did grow to me howsteadfast that thing did look toward the Mighty Pyramid; and this set meto new hatred and horror of the Monster, as you shall conceive andbelieve.And presently, I looked beyond the Watcher, unto the vast Mountain ofthe Great Redoubt; and I was still seeming close upon it; yet, in truth,gone a long and weariful distance. But this you shall understand was bythe greatness and utter height and bulk of that shining Mountain ofLife.And strange and wonderful it was to me to think that even in that onemoment, it might be that the dear Master Monstruwacan did look upon myface, through the Great Spy-Glass. And I should not seem utter far to
[EMOTION][TRANSITION]him, by reason of the power of the big Glass. But to me, as I did lookupward through the Night, unto that far and utmost light in the upperblackness of the everlasting gloom, it did seem doubly to me that I wasafar off and lost forever from mine Home. And this thinking did breed inme such a great and lonesome feeling, and a weakness of the heart andspirit, that forthwith I took my courage close unto me, and did turnaway quickly; and went onward to the North and West, as I have told.Now I walked for twelve hours, and in that time, did eat and drinktwice; and made onward again very steadfast, and happy that all did goso quiet with me; so that it was as if I had at last come to a part ofthe Land that was given over to quietness, and lacking of monsters.
Yet, in truth was I come to a worse place than any, maybe; for as I wentforward, striding very strong, and making a good speed, I did hearpresently a little noise upward in the night, and someways unto my left,that had seeming as that it were a strange low sound that did come downto me out of an hidden doorway above; for, indeed, though the sound didcome from very nigh, as it did seem no more than a score feet above myhead, yet was it a noise that did come out of a great and mightydistance, and out of a Foreign Place. And I did know the Sound; thoughnever, as you may suppose, could I have heard it in all my life. Yet hadI read in one of the Records, and again in a second and a third, howthat certain of all they that had adventured from the Pyramid into theNight Land to seek for knowledge, had chanced to hear a queer andimproper noise above them in the Night; and the noise had been strange,and did come from but a little way upward in the darkness; yet was alsofrom a great and monstrous distance; and did seem to moan and humquietly, and to have a different sounding from all noises of earth. Andin the Records it was set forth that these were those same Doorways InThe Night, which were told of in an ancient and half-doubted Tale of theWorld, that was much in favour of the children of the Pyramid, and notdisdained by certain of our wiser men, and had been thus through all thelatter ages.
[HORROR]And I did seem to know the sound upon the moment; for my heart grewswift to understand. And it was a very dread uncomfortable sound; andyou shall know how it did seem, if you will conceive of a strange noisethat doth happen far away in the Country, and the same noise to seem tocome to you through an opened door near by. And this is but a poor wayto put it; yet how shall I make the thing more known to you? So that Imust even trust unto your wit and true sympathy that you shall conceiveof the fullness of my meaning.
[HORROR]Now, in all the Histories of those that had adventured into the NightLand, there were but three sure Records that did concern this Sound; andeach did tell of a Great Horror; and of them that did hear the Soundthere had died the most part, out in the Night Land. And the Records didmake always that they had come upon Destruction, and not simply untoDeath; but were destroyed by a strange and Invisible Evil Power from theNight.And of those that came alive unto the Pyramid, they had all one strangetale to tell, how that there were secret and horrid Doorways In TheNight. Yet how this thing could be plain to them, who may know truly;save it be that the eyes of their spirits did behold that which was hidto the eyes of the flesh.
And there was afterwards writ a proper and careful treatise, and did setout that there did be ruptures of the Aether, the which did constitutedoorways, as those more fanciful ones did name them; and through theseshatterings, which might be likened unto openings--there being no betterword to their naming--there did come into this Particular Condition OfLife, those Monstrous Forces Of Evil, that did dominate the Night, andwhich many did hold surely to have been given this improper entrancethrough the foolish and unwise wisdom of those olden men of learning,that did meddle overfar with matters that did reach in the end beyondtheir understanding. And this thing have I told before, and it doth seemproper unto my belief; for it is always thus, and I have that same taintwithin me, as must all that have the zest of life.Now, by this that I have set down swiftly, to make a little clear thesure horridness of this Sound, you shall know, even with me, the greathorror that did come immediately upon my Spirit; and I did know that mySearch was surely like to have an end in that moment; and I bared minearm, for my teeth, where the Capsule did lie below the skin; and so wasready to an instant Death, if that Destruction did come upon me. And inthe same moment, I did fall silent, inward among the moss-bushes, anddid begin to creep very quiet toward the right; for, as you will mind, Ihad heard the Sound over beyond my left. And all that time, as I did
creep, there was a great sickness upon me, and it did seem that my mouthhad weakened unto water; so that I could scarce hold my teeth tightlyfrom unseemly clitterings.And I crept always very silent, and did often stare quick and painfulover my shoulder, upwards, and this way and that; but did never seeanything; neither could I hear now the Sound.And I went thiswise for a great hour, and was like to faint through theeffort of my care and the soreness of my going. But upon the end of thatlong while, I grew something easier in the Spirit, and did perceive thatI was saved from the Destruction that I had come so dreadful anigh. And
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM][GHOST]this thing, it may be, was because that I did chance to hear it, whilstyet it was beyond, and before I did come right unto it, to pass below.Yet may I be wrong in this thought, and do but make a guessing. But, asI shall here explain; after that time, I kept mine ears newly keen untohearing; and did chide my Spirit, for that it had not taken account ofthat Sound a great while earlier. Yet, as I did presently conceive, thespirit had no power to hear that thing; which was very strange; buttruly so.
Now, because that I went with a very wary hearing, I heard the Soundonce a far way off before me, and I hid upon the moment, and wentbackward, and after a while, did judge myself to have come unto safety;and so it was, in verity, for I heard no more that time. And so did Icome presently unto the eighteenth hour, and did eat and drink, and mademe a place of slumber in a little hollow of a rock that stood upward outof the moss-bushes. And I slept for six hours, and afterwards waked,and was come to no harm.And after I had eat and drunk again, I did look outward over the NightLand, and with particularness to that part that I did travel in, as itmight be called, the yesterday. And I did observe it to be a very bleak
[METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE]and desolate Country, and not given over to fire, or other warmth, norto sulphur-vapours; but to be very quiet, and with but a little light inall its breadth. And I could conceive that it was no place for anythingof life to desire; but rather to avoid; and that Country did seem to beyet all about me; for I was by no means come clear from it at that time;though, Northward, there was a glimmer, as of fire-holes; and beyondthose, the strange shining of the Plain of Blue Fire. And, after that Ihad thought awhile, I did believe that I should meet no Monster ofNatural Life in all that Country of Desolation, until I did draw nigh,once more unto fire. And I conceived that this Sound from out of theinvisible Doorways might yet trouble me; but whether the quietness ofthat part was because all of natural life did fear the Sound, or becausethat there was neither fire nor warmth, I do not say, having no knowingin this matter; but may yet believe that it was to be laid to bothcauses; and this doth seem of common reason, as you shall agree.
[DANGER][PERSPECTIVE]And when I had looked a while unto the Mighty Pyramid, which was nowtruly a great way off; for I had walked so many weary hours; I turned meonce more to my journeying. And here let me observe that I had gone veryfar; yet not so distant, as might be thought; for, oft, I did go lessthan one mile in an hour or maybe two hours, having to be of greatcaution, and oft to hide, and to go upon my belly, or to crawl, all asmight be. And, further, as you may have perceived, I made not a straightforwardness; but did strike this way and that way, being very intent toescape the Monsters and Evil Forces that were all about.Now, because that I believed that I travelled in a Place where wassurely to be discovered those strange Doorways within the Night, I madean especial care of my going; and did stop oft that I might listen, andwatch, and keep a very strict ward in all the Night about me. Yet, as
you shall see, this served not to prevent me from going forward into thefearfulness of that which did haunt all the void; for, sudden, as I wentcarefully, I heard a faint humming noise come downward from the night alittle unto my rear; and the humming noise did grow more plain, as thata door were opened slowly above, and did let out that Sound ever moreloud. And surely, after I did hear that, I could not doubt that a doorwere opened upward there; for the noise did grow in such wise as youshall hear a distant sound come through, when a door truly is oped; for,if the noise had been made just in that place, it had seemed to comefrom there; but this Sound, though it did come _through_ there, was asthat it did come outward from some far lost and foreign Eternity. Andthis I do struggle always to make plain; and you shall not blame me thatI think overmuch upon it; for, in truth there was an horror so wondrousand drear about it, that I can forget not; but do strive always thatothers should know with me that peculiar woe and terror that did hauntthe night.Now, as you will see, I had in truth gone past the place where theDoorway in the Night did open; yet had come to no harm; but rather itdid seem that it opened by chance, unwotting that I was anigh; or it maybe that my quiet passing did disturb an Evil Power, so that it did evencome to listen, or to make search. And all this doth pass through my
brain, as I do write, and it doth seem to me that my thoughts are butthe thoughts of a little child, before so great a mystery; and that Itouch not even the edge and fringe of the truth with my thinkings, andso do cease upon them; and will but go forward so plain as I may with mytelling. Now, as you may truly believe, when I heard that Sound, and didunderstand that I had, in verity, come past beneath that Place, I didsurely sicken to an utter weakness of body and heart, though it was butfor a moment; and then was I swift hid within the close shelter of thelow and thick moss-bushes.And I shook in all my being, and crept, shaking, upon my hands andknees, and did near totter to my face thrice, so weak gone was I in thatmoment of terror; and I did have a wickedness of forgetting in thattime; for I bared not mine arm, to have the Capsule to a readiness formy death, if that did need to be; and this was an abominablefoolishness, and I do shake now when I think upon it; for Death is but alittle matter by the side of Destruction; though, in truth, dreadfulenough for all. Yet, as it did chance, no harm came to me, and I gataway, as that some wondrous power did cast a viewless cloak about me,that I might be utter hid; and oft have I wondered whether this wastruly so; but have no knowing.
[EMOTION][PROBLEM]And, presently, I ceased from fleeing, and had some calmness, and dideat and drink; and so came to the comfort of a firm spirit, the whichhad been sore troubled, above all understanded causes, by that horridsounding upward in the Night. And after that I had eat and drunk, I didrest a little; but afterward, went onward to the Northward, goingtowards that place where the fire-holes did glimmer, the same being bythis time no great way off.Then, as I did come anigh, I thought to hear once again the Sound in thenight, and I stopt very swift, and hid into the moss-bushes, and didlisten; but did hear naught; and so was hopeful that fancy did play uponme. Yet, because of this matter, I went upon my hands and knees for agood way; and so came at last nigh unto the shine of one of thosefire-holes, the which I did see for so long.
[RELIEF][SURPRISE][METAPHOR]Now, as you shall suppose, I went very cautious through the bushes, untothat red-shining fire; being careful, both that I did attract not anyEvil Force that might listen in the Night, and because that there mightbe some Monster nigh to the fire-hole. But, presently, when I was comeso that I could peer through the bushes, I did see a little fire-holeset in a small hollow, and there did no thing seem to lurk anigh; andthe sight of that warmth did cheer me; for it was long since I did havethe comfort of such a matter.And when I had lain hid awhile, that I might watch all about, I saw theplace to be safe and quiet; and I went out from the moss-bushes, and satdown a space from the fire, which did fill the pit in which it did liftand bubble. And the noise that it sent out was strange and slow, and itdid seem to gruntle gently unto itself in that lonesome hollow, as thatit had made a long and quiet grumbling there, through Eternity. And oft
was it still, and made no sound; and again would give an odd bubbling inthe quietness, and send off, as it did seem, a little smoke of sulphur,and afterward fall once more upon a quiet.And so I did sit there very hushed and restful, and the loneliness didlie all about me, and the red shine of the fire-hole did glow soft inthe hollow; and I was glad to be quiet, for my heart was weary.And there was to my back a little rock that did jut upward so high as aman; and the rock was warm and pleasant to lean upon, and moreover didseem to guard me from behind. And there I ate and drunk, and kept verystill; and so was presently rested. And this I did need, as you have
perceived; for I was gone sudden weary of the heart, as I did say; andthis might be because that I did never cease to have Destruction over meto companion my way, though as you will mind, I had been no more thantwelve hours afoot, since my last sleeping. Yet I doubt not you dounderstand.And presently my heart grew strong again within me, and I had a warmthin my Spirit; and I got up from the earth, and stretched out mine arms;and I saw that my gear was safe upon me, and afterward did grip theDiskos, as it were newly.Then I went away from the fire-hole, and climbed the far slope of thehollow, and went Northward. And there were before me many of the
fire-holes; for I did perceive them to shine in the Night for a greatway; as it did seem that they were a path of red shinings that led meonward to the North-West of the light of the Plain of Blue Fire.Now, I had a believing that I had come out of the Country where did lurkthose horrid Doorways in the Night; and I went not with so utter aweight upon my heart; and did feel that naught should come now upon theback of my neck, which had been an odd and troublesome fancy whilst thatI did creep through that Country of Gloom. Yet, as you shall know, Iwent with no foolish confidence; but with a great caution, and minehearing keen to hark, and a care to my steps, and did ever watch aroundme as I journeyed.And because that I went forward in this proper and sedate manner, I hadgreat cause for a thankful heart, as you may perceive; for I had comeafter a long way to another of those hollows where did burn one of thefire-holes; and I made a pause upon the edge of the hollow in which itdid lie, and looked downward, keeping guarded within the moss-bushes,where they grew anigh to the top thereof. But there was no living thing
[TRANSITION]there to be seen, and I went downward, so that I should warm my body atthe fire. And lo! as I stood upon this side of the fire-hole, and turnedmyself about, I looked presently more keenly to the other side; for theyellowness of the earth did seem a little strange in one place. But Icould see with no plainness, because that there arose a glare from thefire against mine eyes; and I went round, that I should look the better;yet with no fear or thought of Evil in my heart. And, truly! when I was
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][ACTION][DANGER][EXPOSITION][CONTEXT]come upon that far side of the fire-hole, lo! there was spread out inthe yellow sand of that place, a Curious Thing; and I went more nigh,and stooped to look upon it; and behold it moved, and the sand all aboutdid move for a great space; so that I gave back very swift, and swungupward with the Diskos.And, strangely, I heard the sand to stir at my back, and I looked roundvery quick, and the sand rose upward in parts, and sifted back, andthere came to my sight odd things that did move and curl about.And immediately, before I knew which way to go, I knew that the sand didshift under my feet, and did work and heave, so that I was tottered, andwas shaken also in the heart; for I knew not what to think in thatinstant. Then did I perceive that I was all surrounded, and I ran swift
[SURPRISE][DANGER][HORROR]upon the heaving sand, unto the edge of the fire-hole, and I turnedthere, and looked quickly; for I did not know what this new Terrorshould be.And I saw that a Yellow Thing did hump upward from out of the sand, asit had been a low hillock that did live, and the sand shed downward fromit, and it did gather to itself strange and horrid arms from the sandall about it. And it stretched two of the arms unto me; but I smote withthe Diskos, and I smote thrice; and afterward they did wriggle upon thesand. But this was not the end, as I did hope; for the Yellow Thingarose, and ran at me, as it might be that you should see a spider run.
[DANGER][ACTION][RESOLUTION][DEATH][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][MONSTER]And I did leap backward, this way and that; but the monster had a greatswiftness; so that I did seem surely lost.Then made I a strong and instant resolve; for I perceived that I had nohope to slay this thing; save that I should come at it in the body. AndI put everything to the chance, and made not to escape any more; but ranstraight in among the legs; and there were great hairs like to spinesupon the legs, and these had pricked me to the death, but that thearmour saved me.Now, I had done this thing with a wondrous quickness; so that I wasunder the mighty arching of the legs before the Yellow Thing did wot ofmy intent. And the body was bristled with the great hairs, and poison
[WEAPON][EMOTION][DANGER][ACTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][MONSTER]did seem to come from them, and to ooze from them strangely in great andshining drops. And the Monster heaved itself up to one side, that itmight bring certain of the legs inward to grasp me; yet in that momentdid I smite utter fierce with the Diskos--thrusting. And the Diskos didspin, and hum, and roar, and sent out a wondrous blaze of flame, as thatit had been a devouring Death; and it sundered the body of the YellowThing, and did seem as that it screamed to rage amid the entrailsthereof; so wondrous was the fury and energy of that trusted Weapon.And I was covered with the muck of the thing; and the claws upon thelegs seized me, so that the grey armour did bend and crack to the mightthereof, and I grew sick unto death with the pain within; but smote withthe shining Diskos, using my left hand weakly; for my right was griptdreadful fast to my body. And lo! I was sudden free, and a great blow
did knock me far across the hollow, so that I was like to have falleninto the fire-hole; but fell instead upon the edge, and came backwardunto safety.And I turned me about, and the Yellow Thing did throw the sand all ways,as it did die; but had lost power to come upon me. And for my part, Ilay weak upon the earth, and was no more able to fight; nor could I domore than breathe for a great while; but yet came presently to health,and made to examine my hurts.Then I saw there was no great wound anywhere upon me; but only an utterbruising; and I found upon my right leg that there was a sharp and hairyclaw clipt about it; but the armour had saved me from harm of the horridthing; so that I did but kick it free with my left foot, and thence intothe fire-hole.
[HORROR]Now, by this time, that Monstrous Creature was dead; but I held off fromit, and went upon the other side of the fire; for I was yet surely inhorror of it. And I sat for a time, and did think upon all matters thatdid concern me; and I saw that I should have not comfort of heart, untilI was washed clean from the taint of the Monster.And I gat me up wearily to go forth into the Night again, that I shouldmake a search for a hot spring, of which I had come past many. And I hadoft found them to be nigh unto the fire-holes; so that I was trustfulthat I should see one ere long. And lo! there was a little hollow just
beyond, and scarce a hundred paces off; and in the hollow, there didshine three small fire-holes, and there was a steaming puddle, as didseem, beyond the third of the holes.Now, before I adventured downward into this place, I went all about thetopmost edge, and made a search of the moss-bushes about; but foundnaught that should scare me. And afterward, I went all across thehollow; but did find no monstrous thing hid anywheres. Yet, there wasthat in the place that discouraged me, and did keep me from strippingmine armour, so that I should bathe in the hot puddle; for I stept upona small serpent, and the same did lap about my leg; but could do me nohurt, for the armour, which was a very blessed protection. And I freed
myself from it with the handle of the Diskos.And because that I could not go naked to my cleansing, I tried first thehotness of the water, which was not over great, and afterward did takeoff the scrip and the pouch, and the cloak, and laid them with theDiskos upon the edge of the warm puddle.Then I stept into the water, and was immediately gone downward a greatway; for, truly it was no puddle as I had supposed; but a deep well, asyou might call it, of hot and sulphury water. And this doth show how aman may act foolishly, even when he doth believe that he hath a greatcaution; and surely it is borne in upon me afresh that none should trustover freely unto unproven matters, the which shall you heartily agreewith; but yet do as foolishly, according to your lights and characters.
And so shall you laugh not over hardly upon me.Now I had gone over the head, and, surely I do not know what deepnesswas there. Yet, as you shall think, I stayed not to consider upon thismatter; but made to climb out, and much shaken with my splutterings andthe smartings of mine eyes; for, truly, the water was strong withsulphur matters. Yet, very cleansing was it, as I did presently see; forthere was no more any taint or horridness upon mine armour, or the fleshof my face or hands. And I took the Diskos, and washed it clean, also;
and then the cloak, and afterward the scrip and the pouch, and the bandsof the same.And after I had done this, I was minded to dry myself by the littlefire-holes; but when I was come there, lo! maybe a score small serpentswere about those places; and I was strongly pleased that I should keepaway. Yet that I must warm and dry me in that desolate and bitter NightLand, you shall agree. And to this end, I put the scrip and the pouch
upon me, and afterwards took the Diskos readily into my hand, and ranquietly unto the hollow where I did fight with the Yellow Thing. And thecloak I bore in my left hand.Now, when I was gat there, I was truly glad to think that there were noserpents in that place; and because that I had slain the Monster of thePlace, how should it be that any harm might come unto me; for truly, wasit not like that a Creature of such Might should keep all that Hollowunto itself, and slay any that did come therein, and thereby preservethat place from all other horror; though, surely, until it did die andcease to Be, there had been no call for any greater abomination.Now, all this did go through my brain, as I did sit to dry mine armourand my body and my gear, upon that side of the fire-hole which was awayfrom the slain Monster. And I made presently to think that this would
[RESOLUTION][ACTION][MONSTER]be a sure and proper refuge wherein to sleep; for, truly, it must havegotten a place where none other Creature should be like to come to workme harm. And it must be that you do all see with me in this matter, andcommend me that I thought with properness.And so did I resolve that I put my disgust within my pocket, as we dosay, and stay safe and quiet within that Hollow. And this thing I didsurely, and did eat and drink; and presently I went over to the deadMonster, and made very sure that it was truly slain; which indeed itwas. And after that I had seen to this matter, I returned unto the
[SURPRISE]fire-hole, and made a comfortable place in the sand, for my rest; for Iwas well dry by this.And I wrapped the cloak about me, and took the Diskos to my breast, fora sure Companion, as it had truly proved in my need. And I could thinkalmost that it did nestle unto me, as that it knew and loved me; butthis thing can be no more than a fancy; and I do but set it down assuch, and that it doth show my feeling and mind at that time.Then, ere I did compose myself to slumber, I looked about me, upward tothe edges of the Hollow, and I perceived that I was lost to the sight ofthe Mighty Pyramid; for I was come so far off that it looked not downfrom so wondrous a height, as you shall perceive; and moreover, theHollow was something deep.
And afterward, as I lay my head back upon the scrip and the pouch, whichwere to me my pillow, I went to think a little upon Naani, as alway Idid in my constant journeying; yet, presently, I strove sometimes that Iput her from my mind, that I should sleep; for a bitter sorrow andanxiousness was oft upon me when that I did think upon her; and this youmay know; for truly I knew not what terror was come to her, afar in thesilence of the Night. And did I think overmuch, I should feel that Icould have no calmness needful to sleep; but to need to walk for everuntil I died, which could not be long; and so should I make afoolishness of mine anxious journeying to do her true service and tosave her from Destruction, if such did truly threaten.And I was soon gone over to sleep, and waked not for seven hours, beingmuch wearied by the fight and the soreness of my body, the which did putme into a great pain as I did rise upward from my slumber. But this waspresently something less, and I eat two of the tablets and drank some ofthe water, and afterward did put my gear upon me, and went forward intothe Night, having the Diskos in my hand. And my heart was glad that I
[SURPRISE]had come safe through the time of my sleep.Now I walked six hours, and did stop a little to eat and drink, and wenton again. And it was in this second Third of the day that I saw afar tomy right, two strange and wondrous men, and they did shine, as they hadbeen made of a pale mist. And they came anigh, going very swift, and didseem as that they were maybe forty feet high, yet having no thickness;and I hid downward into the moss-bushes. And they past me, so quiet as a
cloud of this day might go, and did appear to be, if I did guess, but anhundred fathoms off; yet was this no sure thing; for their position hadno more surety than shall a rainbow have in this age. And so they weregone onward into the Night, and did seem to come out of the North. Andthey did appear not to wot of me; and whether they were harmful, I knownot, for they harmed not me.And I lay there in the moss-bushes, until they were well gone away; andI had belief that they must be those same mist-men that were told of incertain of the olden Records; but were never seen anigh to the Pyramid;though I had thought, odd times, to see men, as of mist, through theGreat Spy-Glass, when I was within the Tower of Observation. But they
were always a mighty way off; and some would say it was but a brightvapour that did move; yet would others be in doubt, and so is it ever insuch matters.And here let me take chance to say how that it is a hard thing to speakof such happenings to men of this age, and to make the truth proper untothem; and because of this, oft am I tempted to say no word upon manythings that I did see; yet must I tell my tale, or suffer from theweight of it within me. And so shall you hark to me and give me yoursympathy and human understanding. And concerning these mist-men, I havewondered oft whether they were the visible shape of some of those manyForces that were abroad in the Night Land; for they did truly seem to meas that a thing of Strange Life were half shown to my human eyes; yet Ido not know, and am but telling of my natural thoughts and ponderings.
[EMOTION]Now, as I did say, those mist-men were never seen nigh unto the Pyramid,and were, as I did hint, always so far off that they were half givenover to the fables of the olden days, in the beliefs of the Peoples ofthe Mighty Redoubt; and set about with an halo of unrealness, for nonewithin the Great Pyramid had ever beheld them with surety.And because that now I saw them anigh to me, it was borne in afresh uponmy spirit how greatly I had wandered away, and how that I stood afar inthe lonesomeness of that Land of Night; as it had been that a man ofthis Age did wander amid the stars, and perceive a great comet to go byhim very close; for then he should know in his heart how that he was faroff in the Void. And this I do say to you, that you may know somewhat ofthe emotions of my heart in that moment.Yet, presently I shook free of my melancholy and lonesomeness and roseup out of the moss-bushes, and went onward. And, as ever, I thought much
[SURPRISE][MONSTER]upon the Maid that I did search for; yet strove to think quietlyconcerning her state; else should I have turned to running, and wreckedmy body before that I had gone any great way.And that day, I passed seven large fire-holes, and two that were small;and always I came softly unto them; for there were oft living thingsabout the warmth. And at the sixth fire-hole, I did see that which I didthink to be a great man, that did sit to the fire, with monstrous kneesdrawn upward unto his chin. And the nose was great and bent downward;and the eyes very large, and did shine with the light from thefire-hole, and moved, watching, always this way and that, so that thewhite parts did show, now this side and now that. But it was notproperly a man.
[TRANSITION][MONSTER]And I went away very quiet from that place, and looked oft backward,until that I was sure of safety; for it was a very horrid Monster, andhad that place to be for a Lair, as I did judge from the smell thereof.And when the eighteenth hour was come, I looked about for a safe placeto my sleep; and I kept away now from the fire-holes; for I did alwaysfind the more life there. Yet, when I came to my rest, I was lacking ofwarmth, by reason of this care; and could scarce sleep at all, becausethat I was so cold. Yet managed something of slumber after a while; butwoke very stiff, and was glad to beat my hands and bestir myself that Ishould come to some warmth of life.
[HORROR]And after that I had eat and drunk, I put my gear upon me, and took theDiskos in my hand, and went forward again upon my journey. And here Ishould tell that I was come soon unto the North-West border of the Plainof Blue Fire. And presently, I was but a little way off from it, and didgo direct to the North; so that the Plain was always upon my right.Now this Plain was a strange and fearsome place, as you shall see; forit was as that a blue void did rise upward from the earth in all thecountry of that Plain. For, surely, the Plain did not lumber with flame;
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM][METAPHOR]but was hid with a strange and inburning light, as of a shiningatmosphere of a cold blue colour. And it did throw no sure light uponthe Night Land, as had seemed proper; but was a very dreadful, coldshining, as of a luminous and blue void. And the moss-bushes grew nighto the edge of the plain, and did show to me black and strange againstthat horrid gloom of light.And you shall know that I could not see into the plain; for it was asthat the cold blue light was a void that swallowed all within it; andgave no power to the eye that aught should be perceived. And it stood
between me and the Mighty Pyramid, and I could nowise see across. And Iknow not whether I do make all this matter clear unto you; for surely itis no easy task.And presently I had gone very quiet upon my hands and knees through themoss-bushes; and I came near upon the edge of the Plain, and hid therein a clump of the moss-bush, and peered forth and harked. And I heardconstant voices that did call to one another across the Plain; as itwere that strange peoples of Spirits did wander within that blueShining, and did make a calling one to the other, and were all hid andheld apart. And surely I could see naught, and did judge, as I have
[SURPRISE][DANGER][PROBLEM][HORROR]writ, that they likewise went blindly. And truly is this a strangematter to set out; and easy to think on with doubt. Yet as I did see, sohave I told; for, in verity, there were surely hidden Peoples of Spiritsscattered and lost afar upon that improper Plain.And you shall judge that I kept safe hid; for whether this might haveany natural explaining, or whether it was a matter that did go utterbeyond knowledge of man, I did not know; for surely in that strangeLand, it did like to be an Horrid Danger in any case; and whether ofsome Monstrous Creatures, or of the Evil Forces of the Land, I didwisely to be away.
[TRANSITION]And for two days I did make a safe coasting of the Plain of Blue Fire;and did keep well off, maybe two great miles, among the moss-bushes. AndI made a very good speed through the darkness. And at the eighteenthhour of each journey, I made a place for my slumber; and the first I didmanage under a thick bush; but the second was high upon the ledge of arock that grew upward in the night amid the bushes. And, save that I wasbitter cold there did no harm come to me. And in all that time of
journeying, I had no sight of the Mighty Pyramid; for the blind shiningof the Plain of Blue Fire was ever between.Now there had been certain little matters in my journey beside the Plainof Blue Fire, which I have not set down; for they were of no account,and do but repeat much that I have told before. And, indeed, there wasnaught in that part of my journey, save that I did pass nineteen greatfire-holes, and four small; and did observe no life beside any, saveabout one of the great holes that there was no hollow around, and here Idid happen to see some strange and ugly creatures so big as my head,that did have a look of the scorpion of this Age; but proportioned moresquat and thick. Yet, though they were naught to remark upon in thatLand, they had been but woeful bedmates to any man; as you may think.
[RELIEF]And you shall know how it gave a rest to my spirit, that I did go solong with no trouble of the Monsters of the Night, or the Evil Forcesthereof. And I grew bolder to my journeying, and made ever a greaterspeed of going; and it was like that I took presently a less heed for mysafety, which was a wrong and foolish state. Yet there came no harm untome, in all that part of my travel.Then, it was in the sixteenth hour of the third day of my journey besidethe Plain, that I did come out beyond the end of it, and had fresh sightof the Mighty Pyramid, afar in the night upon my Right. And I stopt
[SURPRISE][METAPHOR]there in a bare place among the moss-bushes, and did in a weak momenthold up the Diskos, so that I make a salute unto the Pyramid, Mine Home;for truly was I so utter glad to behold it once more.And in a little while was I aware that there was a disturbance of theaether of the world all about me; so that it did seem that there hadbeen one at the Great Spy-Glass to watch for my coming into their sightfrom behind the shining of the Plain of Blue Fire.And it was like that news had gone downward through the Cities of theGreat Redoubt; so that they did print the word of it in the Hour-Slips;and by this there would be many great Millions thinking upon me, and arushing unto the Embrasures, that they might spy out at me. Yet I doubtthat any glass might perceive me surely at so great a space, save thepower of the Great Spy-Glass in the Tower of Observation. But the
[EMOTION][DANGER]Emotion of the Millions to reach to me.And you shall know that it did seem homely and sweet unto me to hear allabout me the shaking of the aether of the world, and to be ware that somany did think humanly upon me, and had prayers unto my safety.And it was a strange thing to stand so utter far off in the Night, andto look back to that Everlasting Hill of Light, that was grown somethingsmall by the distance, and to have surety that I was lookt upon throughthe Great Spy-Glass, maybe by the kindly eye of my dear friend theMaster Monstruwacan, and so keenly that he could, it might be, makealmost to guess the look within mine eyes, as I did gaze backward untothat Mine Home.Yet, though this dear and homely sympathy was a sweet and companionablething to my heart, it came swift to my thought that I was in a soredanger, if that they ceased not quickly to think so onely upon me; forsurely was I not come over-near unto that _dreadful_ House of Silence;and well might so much Emotion of the Millions tell unto the HorridPower that dwelt within, how that I was even anigh. And so shall you see
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION]the mixt feelings that came upon me everyway.Yet, as it did chance, the aether was quieted in a little; for it didneed unity of the Millions (being that they were untrained to theirspiritual powers) to stir the aether. And so was I more easy of mind,and went forward again upon my way.Now, as it did chance, at the eighteenth hour, I was come to a placewhere I heard a noise of water; and I went to my left, that I might comeupon it; and there boiled a hot fountain that went up out of the rock ofthat place. And the water rose upward in a column, and was, maybe, so
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION]thick as my body; and it fell unto the North, for the water came not upstraightly, but did shoot out from the earth unto that way. And I sawthe thing plain; for there were many fire-holes all about, as you shallhave wotted from my telling; and so was there a certain and constantlight in that part of the Land.And I followed the water that ran from the fountain, and tried it withmine hand; but found it to burn; and so did go further beside it; forpresently it should be no hotter than I did need. And it went onward,winding among the moss-bushes, and sent up a constant steam, that hungabout it; and the steam made a red cloud about the way that it did go;for the lights from the fire-holes made a shining upon it; and so was ita wondrous pretty sight.
[MONSTER]Now, presently, I tried the stream again, and found it to be nicelywarm; and I sat upon a little rock, and took off my foot-gear, that Imight bathe my feet, which were gone something tender; moreover, I didache to have the sweetness of water about me. And I made that I shouldbathe my feet, and afterwards find a place among the moss-bushes, and soeat and drink, and have my slumber.Then, as I did sit there beside that warm stream, with my feet dabbledtherein, I heard sudden, afar off, the voice of a mighty Night-Hound,baying in the night. And the sound came from the North-West of the Plainof Blue Fire. And there was afterward a quiet; and you shall see me
[EMOTION][DANGER][SURPRISE][HORROR]sitting there upon the rock by the side of that smoking river, and thesteam all about me, and my feet within the lovely warmth of the water;and I very still and frozen with a sudden fear; for, it did seem to me,in an instant, that the Night-Hound might surely be upon the track of mygoings.And after that there had passed a little time, the while that I didlisten very keen, lo! there burst out in the night, as it did seemscarce a mile off, the monstrous deep baying of the giant Hound. And Iknew surely that the Brute did track me, and a sick and utter horror didfall upon me; so that I could scarce get my foot-gear upon me, oncemore. Yet, in truth, I was not long to the matter, and was to my feet,
[DANGER][ACTION][EMOTION][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][MONSTER]and did hold the Diskos ready; and very desperate I was to the heart;for it is ever a fearsome thing to be put in chase, and the worse anhundred times when there is a sure knowledge that a deathly Monster dothbe the pursuer.Now, I did stand there but a moment it did seem, to make an anxiousconsidering how that I might best assure me some chance to live throughthis swift coming Danger. And then did I think upon the stream, to useit, and I leapt quick therein, and did run very strong down the middlepart, which was nowheres so much as thigh-deep, and oft not above mineankles. And as I did run, there came again the bellow of that direBrute, following, and was now, as mine ears did say, scarce the half ofa mile to my rear.
And I did run but the stronger, for the dread of the sound; and so,maybe, for a little minute; and after that time, I stopt from mine heavyrunning, and went very wary, that I made no loud splashing; for by nowthe Monster-Brute should be something anigh to that place where I didenter the stream. And I looked round, with a constant looking; but didsee no surely visible thing; though my fear did shape me an Hound fromevery shadow of the moss-bushes about me.Then, in a moment, I did hear the Great Beast; for it bayed but alittle way up the stream, as that it had overshot the place where thescent did end. And immediately, I sank swiftly into the water, which wasthere so deep as my knee, and turned upon my belly. And the water surged
over my shoulders; for I kept my head above. And so I did look eager andfearful through the steam into the shadows and the half-darkness,towards where I did think to see the Night-Hound.And in a moment I saw it coming; and it was a little vague, by reason ofthe smoke of the river; yet did seem black and monstrous in the gloom,and great as a mighty horse. And it went past me at a vast andlumbersome gallop; but I did not see it in that moment; for I dived myhead down unto the rock of the river bottom, and held downward, untilthat I was like to burst for sore longing of breath.
[EMOTION]Then I put upward my head, and took swift and deep breathings, and looktabout me, very cautious and fearful, as you can know. And I heard theNight-Hound casting round among the moss-bushes, and it did send up awild and awesome baying; and I heard the bushes brake and smash beneathit, as it did run to and hither. And afterward there was a quiet; yet Imoved not; but stayed there, very low in the water, and did have athankful heart that it was warm and easy to persist in; for I had surelydied of a frozen heart, if that it had been cold; for, by this time, youdo know even with me, how bitter was the chill of the Land.Now, I had been awhile lain thus upon my belly, and heard no sound fromthe monstrous Hound. Yet, I ceased not to be full of an horrid unease,
[SURPRISE][MONSTER]concerning the Great Beast; for I did better to know what it did, thanto have no knowing. And, sudden, I heard the sound of it, running veryswiftly and coming nigh; and it passed me, and did go up the stream; andthere was surely a quick stupor upon me; for I ducked not my head underthe water; but stayed very still; which as it did chance, was maybe notsuch an utter foolishness; for my head did seem in that half-gloom tobe, mayhap, no more than a little rock in the water, and I made no moveto tell of life; yet should the Hound have smelled me; and that itfailed in this matter, doth be a puzzle to me.And as the great Night-Hound past me, it tore the earth and the bushes,with the exceeding strength that it put forth to run, and clods of theearth and stones of bigness were cast this way and that by the feet ofthe Hound, running. And so shall you have a little knowledge of thestrength of that Beast.
And the Hound ran on into the distance, and presently, I heard it bayingin the Night. Then I rose, and went onward, down the warm stream, andmade a strong walking, yet keeping alway to the water; and oft did stopa little that I should listen; and always I heard the Night-Hound agreat way off in the night, baying, and seeming that it did surely runto and fro, searching.Now, I journeyed thus for twelve hours, and the baying of the Houndmaking search, did never cease. And I kept always to the water, as Idid say, that I should leave no scent unto the Hound. And by that twelve
[PROBLEM][DANGER][CONFLICT][EMOTION][SURPRISE]weary hours had gone, I found that I was come anigh unto the House ofSilence. And this put me in great trouble; as you may perceive; forsurely had mine whole effort been to the end that I should avoid thatHouse, by a great way. Yet had the Hound driven me thus a-near.Now I saw that the small river did go onward, and did make a breachacross the Road Where The Silent Ones Walk; and I determined in my heartthat I should leave the water, which was now grown nigh to a bittercold, in that it was so long upon the face of the Land. Yet chiefly did
I mind to leave the water, that I should come no more anigh unto thatHouse of Silence; for the water did go that way. And I stood awhile, anddid listen for the baying of the Hound; but could hear it no more; anddid have a surety within me that it was indeed gone from searching forme.Then I came out of the water, and went forward, stooping and creeping,among the moss-bushes, going outward to the Westward of North, so that Ishould go away so quickly as I might from the nearness of the House.Yet, lo! I was gone upon my hands and knees no more than an hundred
fathoms, when I did find the moss-bushes to cease to the Westward, for agreat way, and there to be a great bareness of rock, which, in truth,was much shown thereabout. And I dared not to go outward upon that nakedLand; for then I had not been hid by the moss-bushes; but had stoodplain there for all things of the Night to behold; and moreover, thoughI could nowise have a sure knowledge concerning this matter, yet did Ihope within me that I should make a sure hiding from the Power of theHouse of Silence, did I but go very low among the bushes. But, indeed,it was like enough that naught could give me hiding; yet should I loseno chance unto my safety.And because of this, I went backward among the bushes, and ceased toescape out unto the Westward. And I found presently, that the
[MONSTER]moss-bushes made but a narrow growth in that path, and grew only for awhile by the side of the Great Road; so that I was surely fain to keepnigh to the Road, that I have the covering of the bushes.And, in a while, I found the Road Where The Silent Ones Walk, to bendinward at the North of the House of Silence; so that it came righthorridly close unto the House; for here the hill on which the House didstand, was very abrupt and fell steeply unto the Road. And so was thatDreadful House stood up there above me in the Silence, as that it didseem to _brood_ there upon the Land. And this side did seem truly as theother; and equal lone and dreadful. And the House was monstrous and
huge, and full of quiet lights; and it was truly as that there had beenno Sound ever in that House through Eternity; but yet was it as that theheart did think each moment to see quiet and shrouded figures within,and yet never were they seen; and this I do but set down that I bringall home unto _your_ hearts also, as that you crouched there with me inthose low moss-bushes, there beside the Great Road, and did look upwardunto that Monstrous House of Everlasting Silence, and did feel theutterness of silence to hang about it in the night; and to know in yourspirits the quiet threat that lived silent there within.And so shall you have mind of me, hid there among the bushes, and soddenand cold; and yet, as you will perceive, so held in my spirit by anutter terror and loathing and solemn wonder and awe of that Mighty Houseof Quietness loomed above me in the Night, that I wotted not of themisery of my body, because that my spirit was put so greatly in dreadand terror for the life of my Being.And also you shall have before you, how that I knew in all my body andsoul, that I stood anigh to that Place where but a little while gonethere had passed inward so dreadful to an everlasting Silence and HorridMystery those poor Youths.And after that you have minded you of this, you shall consider how thatthe memory of all my life held dread thoughts of the monstrousness ofthat House; and now was I anigh unto it. And it did seem to my soul that
[FLASHBACK][EMOTION][DANGER][PROBLEM][TRANSITION][CONFLICT][HORROR]the very Night about it, held an anguish of quiet terror. And always mymind did come back to the sheer matter that I was so anigh. And thisthing I do say unto you once and again; for truly, as you do see, ithath imprinted itself deep into my spirit. Yet shall I now cease fromsaying further in this manner; for, surely, you shall never know allthat was in mine heart; and if I cease not, I do but be like to wearyyou.
[TRANSITION][ACTION][EMOTION][MONSTER]And so did I hide and creep, and oft pause to a time of shaking quiet;and afterward gather something of new courage, and go onward; and peerupward at that monstrous House, stood above me in the night. Yet, as itdid come about, I came presently clear of that horrid place; for theRoad came round again unto the North, and I began that I made a betterway through the moss-bushes; but never that I grew to much speed; for Ihad oft to go about, that I should miss a naked part here, and anotherthere; for truly there was an abundance and bareness of rock, so thatthe bushes grew not so thick as I could wish.And in the space of five hours was I clear of that House; and did have agreater ease about my heart; but yet was not free to come to food nor toslumber, the both of which I did sorely need; for I had slept neithereat for a weariful time, as you do know. But first I must go further offfrom the House, and afterwards come to some fire-hole, that I should drymyself and get warmth again into my body, which was bitter cold.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION]And now that I had come unto the Northward of the House of Silence,there came to me a great Wonder, which bred in me a mighty Hope andGladness. For as I did go among the bushes, there broke sudden allaround me in the aether, the low and solemn beat of the Master-Word. Andthe throb of the Word was utter weak; so that one moment I did say untomyself that I heard, and in a moment that I did not; yet had I no properdoubt in my heart.And I reasoned with myself, and with a great shaking of excitement andexpectation upon me, that the Master-Word came not from the GreatPyramid, which should have power to send it as a Great Force across theeverlasting Night; whilst that this that throbbed about me was faint andscarce to be known even unto the keenness of the Night-Hearing, whichwas mine.
[EMOTION]And, immediately, as I crouched low there, and thrilled with the hopethat was bred in me, lo! there seemed to come the far faint voice ofNaani, calling with a little voice within my spirit. And I thought thecry to have an utterness of supplication within it; so that I grewdesperate to up and go to running; yet did curb such foolishness, andstayed very hushed, to listen.But I heard no more; yet was shaken continually with the Joy and Hopewhich this calling did breed in me, for truly did it seem now that I wasright that I did determine to go unto the North; for sure was I now thatthe Lesser Redoubt lay that way in the Night. And it did seem plain unto
[EMOTION]me, that the House of Silence had put a barrier between; and had powerto withhold so weak a calling. And now had I come beyond the Barrier.And I did perceive in my heart how that Naani had called off, maybe inthe sadness of Despair; yet had the weak crying of her brain-elementsbeen held from me by the horrid power of the house; and surely, as I didthink, it was well named; for it did make a silence.And so shall you stay with me in your hearts, and take to ourselvessomething of the new Gladness that held all my being; for it did seemtruly that my bitter task and adventuring should not in the end beoffered to Uselessness; and that I did truly draw unto that far place inthe Everlasting Night, where mine own Maid did cry for me, that I shouldsuccour her.
And ever as I went, did I hark; but there was no more the low eating ofthe Master-Word in the Night; not at that time.And presently, I spied outward to the West, as it did seem a good mileoff in the night, the shining of a fire-hole; and I began to plan that Ishould come unto that place, and have warmth and dryness, and food andslumber. And, in verity, so set was I to the need of these matters thatif there did be a Monstrous Thing nigh to the fire--as was so oft thecase--then would I give battle unto it; for neither my Joy nor mylabours did serve to put warmth into my body; and I must surely comeanigh to fire, or die.Then, as I kneeled upward among the moss-bushes, and made to lay a truecourse unto the fire-hole, I perceived that there came a Being alongthe Road unto my right; and I went low into the bushes, and moved not;for truly I had seen that there drew nigh one of the Silent Ones.
[SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][HORROR]And I made a little place that should let me to see; and I spied out,with an utter caution; and lo! the Being came on very quiet, and with nohurry. And in a time, it went by me on the road, and did take no heed tome; yet did I feel that it had knowledge that I stoopt there among themoss-bushes. And it made no sound as it went; and was a Dreadful thing;yet, it did seem unto my heart, as that it had no trouble of WantonMalice to work needless Destruction to any. And this, I crave strangely
[EMOTION][HORROR]that you to understand; for it was so to me that I had a quiet and greatrespect for that thing; and did feel no hatred; yet was very dreadly infear of it. And it was Huge in size, and was shrouded unto its feet, andseemed, maybe ten feet high. Yet, presently, it was gone onward down theRoad, and I was no more troubled by it.Then did I make no waste of time; but set off unto the fire-hole; andkept so much to shelter as I might; but was oft made to run over bakedplaces, ere that I should come to more of the bushes.
And I came presently nigh unto the fire-hole, and made a pause, andcrept unto it, with a great care. And I found it to be in the bottom ofa deep hollow of the rock of that part. And the rock was clear lookingof all living matters, the which did make me to be glad. And I wentround about the top of the hollow, carrying the Diskos very handily; butthere was nowhere any living thing; and I feared not to go downward intothe deep hollow, and so unto the fire-hole, which lay in the bottom, asyou have perceived.
[RELIEF][EMOTION]And when I was come there, I made a close search of the rock, and foundit was very sweet and warm; and there were no serpents, neither anystinging creatures; so that a certain comfort came upon my spirit.Then stript I off mine armour and gear, and afterward all my garments,so that I stood naked there in the hollow. Yet was that place almost sowarm as some mild oven, and I had no fear to suffer from the cold of theNight Land; but was uneasy lest that any monstrous thing should be anighto come to take me so unawares.Now I wrung the garments, and spread them upon the rock near unto thefire-hole, where it was hot; and I did rub my body very brisk with myhands, so that I glowed into health and had no fear of a stiffness.
And afterward, I did look to my food and drink, and to the matters inthe pouch; but there had no harm come to any, by reason of the tightnessof the scrip and the pouch, that had kept off the water. And I eat anddrank, there as I stood waiting for the garments to come to dryness; andI walked about a little, as I eat; for I was restless to be into minearmour swiftly. And now I did turn this garment upward of the dry side,and now that; but did find them to steam, so that I turned them manytimes before they were proper.Yet, in truth, they dried in but a little while, and I gat me into themvery swift, and into the armour; and I felt the strength and courage ofmy spirit to come back into me, which had gone outward somewhat when Idid stand there so naked. And this feeling you shall all have
[EMOTION][PROBLEM]understanding of; and know that you would have felt that way, likewise,had you but stood there in that Land in so unhappy a plight.And when I had come into mine armour, I put my gear upon me, and tookthe Diskos into my hand, and did climb out of the hollow; for I wouldfind a more secure place to my slumber, and did not dare to sleep inthat place; for it was beyond seven and thirty hours since that I didhave sleep; though as I do see by my count, I have made it to seem butas five and thirty; yet was a part consumed in diverse matters that Ihave not set down. And you shall mind how bitter had been my labour andweariness in all that time; and I did know of a surety that sleep mustcome heavily upon me; so that I was sorely in need that I should searchout a safe place; for I should not be lightly waked, until that I hadslept away the tiredness of my heart, and the weariful achings from mybody. And, indeed, I should mind you how that I was not yet come perfectfrom the bruising which I had gotten from the fight with the YellowThing.
[EMOTION][ACTION][SURPRISE][PROBLEM]And presently, when I had searched but a little while, I did find that arock stood upward from a great clumping of the moss-bushes unto my left;and I went over to the rock, and made a search about it. And I foundthat there was a hole into the bottom part of the rock, and I thrust theDiskos into the hole, and made the blade to spin a little, so that itsent out a light; but there was no thing in the hole, and it did seem adry and safe place for my sleep.Then I turned me about, and went into the hole with my feet that way;and I found that it was so deep into the rock as the length of two men,and just so wide as I could lie in it without having it to pinch me. Andthere I made my bed in the hole, and went swift unto my sleep, andscarce had but a moment even to think upon Naani; and by this thingshall you know how utter was my weariness.
Now I waked of a sudden, and was very clear and refreshed. And I creptto the mouth of the hole, and lookt out; but there was all a quietnessround about, and nothing to threaten.And I found that I had slept ten hours; so that I made a haste to eatand drink, that I should go forward swiftly upon my journey. And at thattime, as in the time when I did eat, naked, in the hollow, by thefire-hole, I eat four of the tablets; and this you shall understand tobe rightly due unto me, in that I had gone so long fasting in that mygreat journeying to come safe from the Hound, and to come past the Houseof Silence. And this shall seem but a little thing to you; yet was it a
[SURPRISE]wondrous important matter unto me, that had gone so long with an emptybelly, and was never satisfied. And neither should any be, that had eatso little as I did eat, and made to fill their belly always with a drinkof water. Yet, I doubt not but that it did keep my soul sweet andwholesome and no useful thing to the Powers of Evil of the Land.And when I had made an end of so great a gorging, and had ceased to bedrunken with water, I gat my gear upon me, and took the Diskos into minehand, and so went forth once more towards the North.
And presently, I was nigh unto the Road again; for it did curvesomething Westward a space beyond. And I was sore tempted to go upon theRoad; for the ground was rough and the moss-bushes did catch my feet.Yet did I stay among the bushes, though the Road was true and smooth, bycompare. And by this telling, you will perceive that I walked once moreupright, and had given over to crawl between the bushes. And, in truth,
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][METAPHOR][HORROR]this was so; for the Land did seem very quiet in all that part; and Ihad less of fear, now that I stood beyond the horrid unease of the Houseof Silence.Now, after that I had journeyed twelve hours, I saw that I was come uponthe commencement of a great and mighty slope, as that the world didslope downward always towards the North. And I went on again, after thatI had eat and drunk, as I did likewise before this at the sixth hour ofthat day's journey.And presently, I perceived the Road to cease; and surely this didconfound me; as that a man of this age had come to a part where theworld did end; for you shall know that the Road was that which hadseemed to go on for ever; and you shall mind the way of my life up tillthat time, and so shall you the better conceive of my bewilderment, andas it were a feeling of great strangeness unto one that was overprest,as you would believe, with strange matters.
[PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION]Yet, truly, was this all as the little book of metal had told unto me;and so should I have been something prepared; yet are we ever thusneeding eye-proof; and perhaps it is more proper that it be so.Yet, you shall perceive me adrift somewhat as to direction; for I hadsteered before this time so that I should come to the North of the Houseof Silence; and afterward had shaped my way by the Road. But now was Iadrift, as it might be set down, in the wilderness.And so did I stand and consider, and presently did look unto the farPyramid, which was now a great way off in the night, and had seemed butsmall by that which I knew it to be. And lo! as I did look, I perceived
[CONFLICT]that I could but see the high upper-point of the light of the GreatPyramid, where did shine the Last Light; and I was confounded afresh;yet in a moment I saw that the greatness of the slope did account forthis. But here I should tell to you that the slope was nowise steep; butdid seem as that it should never cease. And mayhaps this is clear untoyou.And I perceived surely that the time was come when I should make anutter parting from the Great Redoubt; and the thought came very heavyupon me. And in the same time I knew that the aether was stirred by the
[EMOTION]emotions of the Millions; so that I had knowledge they watched me withthe Great Spy-Glass, and did send word down unto the Hour-Slips; and bythis did the Millions know, and have a great thinking upon me in thatmoment.And you shall perceive how utter lost and lonesome I did feel. And itwas at that time that I did test the compass, to comfort me, as I didtell before this, and feared I must sure forget, when I did come to theproper place; yet have I minded me, as I did desire.And I saw now that the Night Land that I did wot of, was hid from me bythe slope. And I turned and looked down the slope; and surely all before
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][HORROR]me was utter wildness of a dark desolation; for it did seem to gonowhither but into an everlasting night. And there was no fire downthere, neither light of any kind; but only Darkness and, as I did feel,Eternity. And downward into that Blackness did the great slope seem togo for ever.Now, as I did stand there, looking downward into the Dark, and oftenbackward unto the shining of the Final Light, and put to a horriddesolateness, behold! there came the low beating of the Master-Word in
the Night. And it did appear as that it had been sent to give me courageand strength in that moment; and did seem unto my fancy that surely itdid come upward unto me from out of the mighty blackness into which theGreat Slope ran. Yet could this have been but a belief; for the aetherdoth have no regard unto direction to show you whence the spiritualsound doth come; and this did my knowledge and Reason know full well.And I made that I would send back the Master-Word, sending it with mybrain-elements, and so give news unto Naani how that I did struggle tocome unto her. Yet did I have caution in time; for in verity, had I sent
the Master-Word, then had the Evil Forces of the Land wotted that I wasout; and mayhaps had come swift unto my Destruction; and so did Icontain my spirit and desire, and made to do wisely.Yet was I put in courage by the low beat of the Master-Word; and didlisten very keen, that some message should follow; but there came none,neither did the weak throb of the Word come about me again, at thattime. And because that I was now grown more to my natural state, and didfeel that I should indeed find the Maid, I looked once more unto theGreat Pyramid, long and eager and with a solemn heart; yet with no signor salutation, as I was before determined. And afterward, I turned andwent downward into the dark.
VIIIDOWN THE MIGHTY SLOPENow I went downward very quiet and slow into that Darkness; and did makebut a cautious way; for now you shall know me truly wrapped about withsuch a night as did seem to press upon my very soul, and such as youshall never have seen nor felt; so that I did seem lost even from myself, and did appear as that I went presently in unreal fashion, and didpass onward for ever and for ever through everlasting night; so that oddwhiles I did make to walk with random, as that I stept no more upon thisearth; but did go offwards into the Void. Yet was this foolishness ofthe mind set straight and proper each time that it did come about; forlo! I did kick against an upjutting rock here, and fall upon a great andunseen boulder there, and so was shaken very quickly to a soundknowledge that I trode the hard and actual earth; and had no truedealings with unreal matters.And ever I did go downward; and by this only did I have a guide to myway. Yet, as you shall think, through reason of the utter dark I made
[FLASHBACK][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][PROBLEM]scarce a mile in an hour or even two full hours; and so grew bitter byreason of mine unableness to go forward with a proper and free stride.But I did think me presently upon a thing that I should do to light mypath; and to this end, I did make the Diskos to spin, odd whiles, anddid look down the mighty slope, the little way that the strangeglistening of the Diskos did show, and so fixed my path into mine inwardremembering, and would go forward afresh, until that I was shaken oncemore by the darkness, and would fain to look once again upon theblessedness of light, and make me some knowledge of my way.And, truly, the light from the Diskos did seem astonishing great, andthis to be because there was so monstrous a darkness all about me thereforever. And thereafter would I go onward again, until the pain of mystumblings did bid me surely to have that sweet shining once more untomy path.
And so shall you perceive my going; and sore and miserable was it untothe heart; and like to shake the courage of the spirit; yet, in verity,I had come through much, and did have intent to give way to nofoolishness of thought.And you shall well believe that I did make the light not more oft than Idid surely need; for it was no properness of wisdom to use the power ofthe Diskos, save for mine extremity.Now, presently, when I had done thiswise through six long and bitterhours, and it being now beyond the twentieth hour since I did lastslumber, I sat me down there upon the Mighty Slope, in the everlastingDark, and did eat two of the tablets, and made the water, and could butfeel and hearken whether I did this thing right and that.And when I had eat and drunk, I unfolded my cloak, and wrapt it aroundme, and placed the scrip and the pouch under my head; and the Diskos Itook to company me; and so fell swiftly upon sleep; yet did thinkearnestly but vaguely upon Naani, as I came unto slumber.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]And I slept all but six hours, and did waken very sudden there in theutter dark; and I got me to mine elbow, and did listen very keen; for Ihad waked immediately, as that something had touched me or come nighunto me; and I gript the Diskos, and listened; but there did not even alittle sound come to me out of all that night.And presently I had more assuredness that naught did make harm about me;and I sat me up in the dark, and reached for my scrip, and did eat anddrink, there in that utter night; and fumbled somewhat, as you shallthink. Yet I was done in a while, and got my gear upon me, and theDiskos into my hand, and so to my feet and forward.Now all that day, I did have a strange unease of the spirit, so that Istopt oft to listen, as that my soul told of something nigh unto me thatdid follow very quiet. Yet did mine ears perceive nothing; and so I
[EMOTION][TRANSITION]alway to go downward again into the night that held the slope.And here should I tell how that in the early part of the seventh hour,after I had eat and drunk, and went forward as ever, upon my journeydown the Mighty Slope, I did have a very sore tumble against a sharprock; for I put my foot sudden into a small hole, and this did make meto pitch. And I was utter shaked by the fall and lay very quiet for atime; for the rock had surely ript my body, but for the armour.And after that I was something renewed of strength and spirit, I madethat I should go no more upon my feet, but upon my hands and knees; andthus should I feel the way that I went, and have a less need of theDiskos, which had not overmuch use to light my way, in that I shone itnot often, and did guess more than I did perceive, as you may think.
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][CONFLICT][PERSPECTIVE][FLASHBACK][CONTEXT][SURPRISE][METAPHOR]And so I crept all that day, which was a bitter way of travel; yet had Idone many a sore mile thus through the Night Land. And when that I hadgone downward for eighteen hours, and eat and drunk thrice, I ceasedfrom my labour, and did feel about in the darkness, that I come to alevel place for my rest; and so did find presently, a place not so bad,and did push and cast away such small boulders as had been like to irkme.Then did I eat and drink, and afterward composed me to my sleep, and hadmany a thought of Naani, as I did drift unto slumber; yet also had Imemories of the strange half-fear that had been with me all that day, asthough something went constantly near me in the Dark. And because ofthis, twice did I rise unto mine elbow, and listen; but heard no soundto trouble me, and afterward did trust that I did but fancy; and so cameat last unto slumber, that yet was not over-restful, for truly I didlisten even as I slept.
And when I had been asleep scarce six hours, I waked again very sudden,as I had done before, and had belief that something did be anigh untome; and I gript the Diskos, and did hearken; yet was there no sound thatmine ears did wot of; neither aught that had power to be surely known ofthe spirit.And all that day was as the day before; save that about the eighth hourI came near to fall into some monstrous pit in the Great Slope; but didonly fall with my breast upon the edge, and so drew back, and presentlydid crawl all around it in the dark, and come safe unto the lower side;yet shaken and put more in trouble of spirit than before, and fearfulhow I should go; for I knew not whether I had come among such things, orwhether I had but few to sorrow me.And so you shall perceive that I went over-cautious for a great while inall that utter dark; but did think at last upon a plan to go with moresurety and speed. But to this I did need a cord, and surely I had nocord upon me; and if a boy be no boy that hath none such about him,shall not the same be said of any man! And this I did think, as I
[METAPHOR][SURPRISE]searched me; for the sayings of that day had many that were like tothis.Yet in the end I did compass my plan; for I did buckle the scrip and thepouch together, and took one of the straps from the pouch; and thisstrap was long and thin, and well suited unto my purpose. Then I fixt astone into the end of the strap, and buckled it there, and after that, Icast the stone before me, as I went upon my hands and knees; and I didhold to the hither end of the strap, and so was abled to have somethingof knowledge whether there lay any great deepness immediately before me,and thiswise to strive that I fall not down some monstrous cliff in thenight.And so did I go, casting the stone continually to my front, down theslope; and this you shall think to be a cumbersome fashion of travel;yet was I in better case than in all the time since I had begun to godownward of the Mighty Slope in the everlasting darkness.
[SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][EMOTION][CONTEXT]And at the eighteenth hour I did sleep; and was waked strangely beforethe sixth hour, even as I had waked before. And this did put alwaysupon me a new wonder and unease. Yet did no harm seem to come unto me,and I did strive that I have no needful trouble of mind. But thatsomething was always nigh unto me in the dark, I do truly believe; yethave I no knowing that it was evil; for it harmed not me.
[SETTING]And three days more I journeyed thus, and did never cease to creepdownward weariful upon my hands and knees; and the Diskos I had to myhip, and so shall you know how I carried it. And by this, as you doknow, I had been on the Great Slope six days of utter Dark; and did haveno wotting but that I went unto some dire and dreadful place; for,surely, I had gone for ever downward a monstrous way.And here, before I tell further, I must set down how that the cold wasmuch gone from out of the air upon the slope; and the air was grown, asit did seem, very heavy unto my chest. And concerning this matter Ishould say something. For, if I do mind me, I have said not overmuch
concerning the air of the Night Land and the Mighty Pyramid; for truly Ihave been so set to tell my story of all that I did truly see andadventure upon. Yet, though I have said but little, you will surely haveperceived that the air of that far and chill time was not as the air ofthis; but was thin and keen within the Night Land, and lay not, as I dothink, to a great height above the land, but only nigh to the earth.And as you do know through my tellings, there was a wondrous differencebetween the air within the Mighty Pyramid, and that which lay withoutaround the base; for upward beyond that, I did understand that there wasno outward air that any should breathe; and so was all the Pyramidsealed in certain wise in all the upper Cities for ever; and whether itwas sealed _utterly_ from the outward air at the base, I do not surelyremember, if, in truth that I did ever bother my head to such matters.Yet, if I be set proper in memory and understanding, we did draw airfrom the Underground Fields; but whether they gat any change or newnessof air from the Night Land, I have no knowledge; and do lament that Ihave no sure knowing. Yet, as you shall believe, I could surely write an
hundred books upon that Wonder of the Future, and be still lacking inthe half of all that there is to be told; and so do I try to havecourage to this my task, and to have no over-trouble, because that I dotell but a little of a Great Tale.And here in this place will I set down how that the Peoples of thePyramid were greater to the chest, methinks, than we of this age; butyet do I have no oversurety in the matter; for well it may be that theReason of _this_ age doth blind within me somewhat the Knowledge that Ihave concerning _that_; for, in verity, is it not but a natural thing tobelieve those Peoples to be great of the chest, so that they should makea proper dealing with the thin air of that place and that time? And yet,as I do strive to make plain unto you, because that this thing shouldbe, by the making of my Reason, I do the more distrust that Reasonshall make foolish my Knowledge; for even a fool should suppose thatwhich I have told; and the truth may be even otherwise.Yet that the Peoples of the _Upper_ Cities had great chests, I do wellknow; for this was a common knowledge; even as we of this age doacknowledge the Peoples of Africa to be of blackness, or those ofPatagonia to be of great stature. And by this one thing should any know
a man of the Upper Cities, from a man of the Lower Cities. And becausethat there grew this difference among the Peoples, there had been once,as any could learn from the Histories, a plan whereby the Peoples shouldbe moved upward and downward through the great height of the MightyPyramid, from this city unto that. Yet had it met with great disfavour;and was put out of force; and this is easy to be seen as the natural wayof the human heart.And here it doth occur unto me that it was like enough to be a plan forhealth, beside of training of the mind, that each youth and maid was putto travel through all the cities of the Mighty Pyramid; the which didtake three years and two hundred and twenty-five days, as I have toldbefore this. For by this plan, were they made to breathe the air of
every height, and this, mayhaps, unto the good of their developing. Andthey also to discover that air which was best to their need.And concerning the air of the Night Land, you shall know that there wasin all that Land no flying thing, because that the air was grown verythin; yet, as the Records did show, there had once been monstrousflying-brutes, that went over the Land in mighty bounds; but this was ina long gone age; and we could but suppose that the Records gave truth.And here you shall know that, when the Monstruwacans did learn that Iwould journey through the Night Land, in search of Naani, there had beensome foolish and well-intended talk among them that I take a smallflying-ship, that was in the Great Museum beside the models of the GreatShips. For, truly, this machine was yet sound to go; for it was made of
[PROBLEM][DANGER][CONFLICT][SURPRISE]the grey metal of the Mighty Pyramid, that did seem to have no power tocease. Yet, in verity, I had no skill to manage this, neither had itflown, through an hundred thousand years; so that none did know themastership of that art, which did be learned but by a constant practice,and oft made uneasy by fallings that did wreck the machine, as I didknow from the Book of Flying. And, moreover, as I have told, the air ofthe Night Land was grown over-weak to uphold such a thing; which, Idoubt not, had made the Peoples of the Pyramid to cease from flyings,quite so much as that they did fear the Forces of Evil in the night.And if that there had been air and skill sufficient unto this purpose offlying, yet had I been wicked with foolishness that I should work to behung upward in the night, for all the Evil of the Night Land to behold.
And though I had gone up some great way, yet the machine had surely madea great noise in the quietness of the eternal night, as you shallsuppose.Now indeed am I gone weary that I should need to tell so much concerningthe air of that Time and Place; for surely I do seem to make this mystory as that I did make a lecturing upon matters of chemistry; and sodo I cast about, that I may not bother to tell more upon this matter.Yet, in truth, a little more of my thinkings and observings had I betterset down here, and so be done with it. But you shall have patience withme, and know that had this, my story, been no more than an idle tale, Ihad been free to make no labour with such matters.
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM][DANGER][CONFLICT][METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][HORROR]Now there doth a wonder come to me why that the Road Makers, who were ofthat far-off Age which was before the Age of the Mighty Pyramid, did not_fly_ downward from the upper world into the deep of the monstrousvalley; but did instead build a road.Yet it may be that the air of the upper world had grown thin a greatage, so that they had truly forgot that once man did have power to fly.But even if that they did have proper machines to this purpose, surelyit were a wondrous and fearful thing to fly downward an hundred greatmiles; for they surely to have a dread that they never to rise againthrough so huge a deep.And, moreover, the downward world that was the bottom of the GreatValley, was full of monsters, as was told in the little metal book. And
[PERSPECTIVE][MONSTER]the monsters were very strange and unknown; and foreign to the wholeworld, that had never come unto the deep of the Valley. And the Valleyhad come, as you shall mind, when the earth did split; and this thingwas, in truth, like to be thought that same Ending of the World, whichall Nations have been taught to believe shall come. For in verity, whenthe world did split and burst, and the oceans rushed downward into theearth, and there was fire, and storms, and a mighty chaos, surely it wasproper to think that the End had come. Yet was it, in truth, but thebeginning of hope of a new Eternity of Life; so that out of the End camethe Beginning, and Life out of Death, and Good out of that which didseem a dire matter. And so is it always.
Yet doth this go past my first wonder, which did concern the whereforethat they made not to descend in Things of Flight. Yet, maybe, shall myreasons stand to show why this was not.And again, mayhap it did chance that some were wild adventurers, and didleap over the edge of the upper world, having to ease their flightcertain contrivings, like to parachutes. And these you shall picture, asthat you watched them to leap; and so shall you see them go downwardinto the gloom; and you shall see them for maybe ten miles, and maybefor twenty miles; and afterward shall they be lost utterly in that GreatDeep, and seen no more of any man for ever.
[TRANSITION]But when the Nations became Road-Makers, and came downward slowly to themonstrous Deep of the Mighty Valley that did split the World, then werethey come there by millions, and with power sufficient to fight againstthe Beasts; and afterward to grow back again to an ancient Civilizing;and so to the building of the great airships that were yet shown in theGreat Museum of the Pyramid. And here shall I cease from these mythinkings on this matter; for indeed, who shall say what did be truly aReason for those peoples and what was their Need? And so do I come to nosurety by my wonderings.Yet, as you do know, all things do seem verily to go in a circle; for,behold, in time, they of the Mighty Pyramid, were likewise held off fromthe glory of the airships; and so were gone backward a great way,according as we do look upon this matter. And so hath this been the way
[TRANSITION]always, as you shall know who have studied and thought, and seen thetrue ways and goings of Life.And now will I go forward in my telling; and here will set down a surething that I did perceive, both by mine ears and by my fingers; for, asI did make clear to you but a while gone, there had come a change intothe air as I did go downward of the Mighty Slope; and truly I was cometo a great and new Deepness, even beyond that of the wondrous depthwhere did stand the Last Redoubt. So that I was afar down and in amonstrous night. And the air here was of a great thickness andabundancy, even as it might be the air of this our Age; or maybe more ormaybe less; for who may compare two matters with a sure guessing, thatdo have an eternity to keep them asunder. And because that the air was
grown very strong and apparent, it shall be, mayhaps, that it was byreason of this thing that the water, when I did make it, did fizz upwardin a moment very loud and plentiful, and did boil overward to the earthfrom out of the cup, and wet upon my hand. And surely this thought didcome very keen to my Reason, as I did fumble, each time of mine eating,there in the everlasting night and lonesomeness of the Great Slope.And so shall you have knowledge now of this and that thing which didcome upon my thought, and of the little and the big wonders, and allshall help something to give unto you the ache of newness andbewilderment that was constant companion unto me.Now by this time, as I have said, I was gone downward ever for six greatdays; and I did seem as that I should presently come to the middle ofthe world; for of going downward there was no end.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]And then, when it did be that I was near ready to believe this, Iperceived far off in the deep of the night a little shining that was yetweak and unsure. And I do not know whether I can truly give unto you thegreat astonishment and pain of hope that did come upon me; so that Igrew sick in all my being but to behold once again the blessedness oflight, and to have help unto my belief that I went not downward to anutter desolation.And I stood upward from my knees, and did look very earnest, and surelyit did seem that a light was there afar downward in the night; and againit did seem that I must be plagued by my hopes and by my fancy, and thatthere was nowhere any light. And then again I did see it very clear, andnot to be mistaken, and I had a shaking to come upon me, and I gat me toa run, and made a great and mad speed down the dark slope. And lo! I was
not gone any way, but I went headlong, and near brake myself; and couldbut hold my teeth together very fierce and quiet until that the pain wassomething gone from me.And afterward, I gat me again to mine hands and knees, and went slowly,as before; and so for a great hour or more, and did look oft; and alwaythe light became more plain to my sight; but ever to come and go,oddly-wise. Yet did I go six hours, before that I was come anywise nearto it. And by this shall you know how great a space off it had been. And
lo! when that I did seem surely anigh unto it, truly was it still faraway in the night; and I came not indeed near to it until that I wasgone onward again for three hours more. And all that time did I yet godownward into the night; but the Slope now did not be so utter dark.Now, presently, I made a pause, and stood upward to my feet, so that Ishould the better perceive the light. And lo! as I did look toward it, I
heard a faraway sound in the dark, as that something did set up astrange and monstrous piping in the night. And immediately, I went tomine hands and knees among the stones of the Slope, and kept myself lowin the darkness, so that I should be the less plain to be seen, did anyMonster approach.But there came nothing to trouble me, and I went downward of the Slopefor yet another hour; and all the time that I did go, the sound of thepiping grew more in the great eternity of the night upon the Slope.And by this time was I come truly near unto the light; but yet did notbehold it plainly; for it did burn beyond certain monstrous rocks thatstood between. And I went to the left for, maybe, the half of a big
mile; and all the while that I did go, the piping made a mightierwhistling in the Night; and it did seem presently as that the earth sentforth the sound and revelry of wild roarings. And I went the moresilent; and later did kneel among three rocks, and peered forth for awhile upon the place before me.And now, being come nigh unto the light--though yet it was not unhidfrom behind the great barriers of the uprising rocks, I perceived that Icrouched within the mouth of a mighty gorge; and the left side was agreat way off, and I saw it plain at whiles when the light did rise; butthe light was to the right, and it was so wondrous great that it didmake clear to me that a mountain was to that side of the gorge, andwent upward into the everlasting night, as it did seem for ever.And afar down the gorge, I did see the shinings of strange fires, faintand a great way off. And so was I come at last to the bottom of the
[TRANSITION][METAPHOR][CONFLICT][PERSPECTIVE]Mighty Slope. Yet the gorge also to go downward, but not so great.And presently I did go forward again; and so did open the point of therocks, as the sailors do say. And I saw now that there gushed forth agreat blue flame from the earth; and the mighty rocks stood about it, asthat they were olden giants groupt there to some strange service.
And concerning this flame I was not overmuch astonished in my Reason;for it had seemed to me as I drew anigh, that the fire and the soundshould be made by the roaring and whistling of a burning gas that didissue forth among the rocks. Yet, truly, though it did be a naturalmatter, it was yet a wondrous sight, and set amazement on my senses; forthe flame did dance, and sway whitherward monstrously, and sometimes didseem that it dropt so low as an hundred feet, and afterward went upwardwith a vast roaring unto the utter height, and did stand mighty andblazing, maybe a full thousand feet, so that the far side of the gorgewas lit, and surely it was seven great miles off or more; but yet didshow plain and wondrous. And the light did show me the flank of themountain, that made the right hand side of the Gorge, to go upmeasureless into the night.And so shall you perceive that I stayed awhile among the rocks that werein the mouth of the gorge, that I should gaze upon this thing; butafterward I lookt this way and that way, so that I should have a knowingof the place where I was come.
[METAPHOR][CHARACTERIZATION][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][EXPOSITION]And it was a wild and stark and empty place, as you must perceive. Andthe far side did be great miles off, as I did say; and everywhere therewas abundance of rock and lonesomeness. And before me there went thegreat and dim length of the gorge, and there were lights here and lightsthere, in a great distance, and oft--as it did seem--the quiet dancingof lights in diverse places; but yet were these gone on the instant. Andever there was a strong and vacant silence upon that place.
And presently, after that I had looked once more unto the mighty dancingflame, and perceived nowhere any life around it, I went onward down thequiet gorge. And for a great way as I journeyed was my path lit by thedancing of the blue flame; and oft should I seem to be going but dimlyamong the rocks, and my shadow faint and long; and lo! the flame wouldleap, and all the gorge come to a wondrous brightness, and my figure toshorten, and the shadows to be black and strong. And so shall youperceive how I went.
And oft did I turn me about to behold the dancing of the Great Light;for it was solemn to my spirit, even amid so much of Greatness andEternity, to think upon that Flame, and to conceive that it had an utterage danced there at the foot of the Mighty Slope, unseen, throughlonesome Eternities. And this I do tell unto you; that thereby may youhave some knowledge of the strangeness and the bitter loneliness of thatplace; which, in verity, did seem the expressing of all the lonesomenessof my wanderings.And all the time as I did go downward of the great Gorge, there soundedthe blast of the roaring, that was presently afar to my back; and themountain sides did catch it here and in that place, and sent it offwardswith strange and improper echoings, as of a chill piping, or oddwise ashushed whisperings of monstrous creatures; so that I did oft stoop tohide a little among the boulders; for truly I knew not but that someunnatural thing called from the darkness of the mountain side.And for six hours I walked onward thus, and sometimes did hide, having asudden fear, as I have told.
[GORE]And presently, in a great while, the roaring was sunk to a far andmonstrous piping; but in the end to no more than a far and uncertainwhistling, that yet did catch strange echoes in the night. And in theend there was only a quietness. And yet, as you do perceive, there hadbeen always a silence in that Gorge, as I have told, and this to thedespite of the whistling. And I do hope that you have understanding withme in this matter; for it was truly as I have told, and there is nocontrariness of telling in this matter.
Now in all this time that I had walked in the great Gorge, I had pastfour of the far lights that I did see from the bottom of the Slope; andthe two first and the fourth were blue, but the third was green; and alldid dance and quake, and sent fitful shinings into the belly of theGorge. And there came also from them whistlings, and from the second onea low and strange moaning noise; and I doubted not the gas did comeoddly and with trouble. And I past these things with no great thought;for truly they were no matters for notice, after that which I hadbeheld.Now, as you shall mind, it was surely in the early Third of the seventhday of my journey down the Mighty Slope that I saw the first shining ofthe monstrous gas fountain; and from that time until now had there pastmaybe sixteen hours. And, as you do wot, I had eat not in all my travel
since that I had seen the light; so that I was gone to a proper lackinward; and moreover, it was full nineteen hours or more since that Ihad slept; and all that while had I laboured.And I ceased me from wandering, and lookt about that I should come to asafe and proper place for my slumber; and this I saw very quick; forthere was dry stone and rock everywhere, and no failing of holes anddiverse places to my purpose; so that I was soon in a little cavebetween two mighty boulders.And here I eat four of the tablets; for truly so many were my due, and Ihad not been violent had I eat more. And afterward, I made some of thewater, and it did fizz up in a moment; so that I perceived that but agood pinch made a great cup-full. And this I set to the count of the
strong and heavy air, as I have told, which I did think to have agreater power of chemistry.And presently I slept, having my gear about me as ever, and the Diskosto my breast. And as I went into slumber, I thought sweetly upon Naani,as I had done, indeed, an hundred times since I was come to thehopefulness of the lights of the Gorge.Now, whilst I slept, I dreamed that the Master-Word did presently beatall about me in the night. Yet, as I do mind, I waked not; and because
[GORE]that I continued to sleep, I have no sure knowing whether this was trulya dream, or an Happening. And I minded me upon it, when I waked; butthis was after that I had slept seven hours; and I could have nosureness anywise of the matter; but only that I was come safe through mysleep; though heavy within my head and limbs, as that the air did callme unto a further slumbering, as is like enough.And after that I had eat and drunk, I put my gear about me, and theDiskos to my hip, for I needed both my hands to the task of journeyingamid the great boulders. And I set forth again down the half-light ofthe mighty Gorge, and through eighteen hours I made a strong going, savewhen I did pause at the sixth and the twelfth hours to mine eating.
And by the eighteenth hour was come, I was very ready to my food andslumber; and presently I was asleep in a place of the rocks. And thatday had I past three and twenty of the dancing gas fires; and five beenlike a white fire; but the others blue and green. And all did dance andmade a strange and uncertain light within the great Gorge; yet was it apeaceful thing unto my spirit that there was truly light, as you shallunderstand.And I slept six hours, and waked, and did want more sleep, as you shallthink. But I eat and drunk and put my gear upon me, and went on downward
[TRANSITION][SURPRISE]of the Gorge.And at the sixth hour, after that I had eat and drunk, I came to a partwhere the big gas fires did cease to dance, and there was a certaindarkness upon that place. Yet was it not a proper dark; for there camethe glimmer of a flame here and the glimmer of a flame there, as thatlittle flames came upward between the stones, and did vanish, and comeupward in another part. And so did light and die out constant andforever amid the stones and the boulders of that lonesome Gorge; andmade a low-spread light, so that it did seem unto me that strangeshudders of light beat upward through the dark of that place.
And I went onward, and a heavy fume did seem to hang in the air, andhorrid gases to come upward from the earth in odd puffings; and anon alight would leap upward beyond the next stone, and afterward vanish, andthere would be an hundred thousand such upon every hand, running to andfore; and afterward for a moment an utter dark, and again the littleflames everywhere; so that it did seem I went one moment amid the heartof a strange country of fire, and immediately through a country of utternight. And this was to me strange and a peculiar matter. Yet, as I dothink, the gases did bother me the more; for they did seem as that theywere like to hurt mine health utterly; for, in verity, oft did I seem asthat I should choke and breathe no more, by reason of the poison thatcame upward from among the stones and the boulders.And all that time, as they came or went, did the little flames makesmall phlocks of sound in the Gorge as they did flash or die; and thesounds did seem, to my likening, as stones cast into an utter silentpool; for they but made apparent the everlasting quiet of the Gorge.
[EMOTION]And afterward, I came beyond this place, and you shall see me going verylonesome among the rocks of the Gorge, beyond. And by this, it was comenigh unto the eighteenth hour; and I did find a place proper to myslumber, and did eat and drink, and was quickly gone over unto sleep.And here, I should tell how that I had not an over-fear of Evil Powerswhilst I was in the great Gorge; for truly it did seem as that nothingthat ever did live came anigh to that wild and silent place of stone androck; but that I journeyed through it alone, and was surely the firstthat did go that way for maybe a million years. And this feeling thatwas upon me, I do hope you to perceive and take unto yourselves, andthus have an understanding of my heart at that time.
[SURPRISE]And as you shall know, I went always unto slumber with sweet and withtroubled thoughts of the Maid. Yet, for a great while, I had been put somightily to the labour of my way that my heart did suffer less at thistime than should be thought; and truly it doth show me how I was drawnunto that One with all my being, that I did surely think so oft andsweetly upon her amid so many perils and matters of horror. And thisdoth seem something strange to say, when that you do consider that I wasadventured unto these same perils and horrors but only for the sake ofthe Maid.And in six hours did I wake, as I did strive alway to set myself to do;yet was I very heavy and slow for a little, until that I was moreproperly come to wakefulness. And surely, as I did think before, this
[EMOTION]was like to be put upon me by the weighty air of the place; but yet itmight be that the gas which did float in the Gorge was upon my lungs.And also, as you have perceived, if but you have attended my way, theair was grown warm, and oft were the rocks pleasant to the seat, and allof these matters did contrive to make me slumbrous.Now, presently, the gas fires did cease utterly in the Gorge, and Ilookt downward, along that great place, and saw only a greyness, butabove the greyness there was, as it did seem, something of a vague andruddy shining in the night. And this did wake me to wonder what newthing lay before; so that I grew more eager among the boulders.
And, later, when I had eat at the sixth and the twelfth hours, and goneon awhile, I came to a place where the Gorge made a quick turning untomy left, and at the end of the turning was a red and glowing light thatwas very great and wonderful; so that I was utter keen to come to thatplace, that I should discover what made the shining. And the place whereI was come then, was very dark, because that I was nigh under the mightywall of the mountain of the right side of the Gorge. Yet above, as itdid seem to me, there was a far red upward glowing in the night.Then did I go forward very fast, and presently, in a good while, Idiscovered that I drew near to a second great turning, that went to theright. And about the seventeenth hour, I came nigh unto the second great
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION][DANGER][PERSPECTIVE][PROBLEM][CONTEXT][FLASHBACK][MONSTER]turning. And here did I put caution upon me, and crept for a while amongthe dark rocks of that place, that I should come to a sight of thatwhich made the monstrous red shining.And presently, I was beyond the corner of the mountain, and did lookdownward into a mighty Country of Seas, and the burning of greatvolcanoes. And the volcanoes did seem as that they burned in the Seas.
[EMOTION][GORE]And the country was full of a great ruddy light from the volcanoes. Andso shall you perceive me there among the rocks that did all stand upwardstrange and bold and silent in the red and monstrous glare of the light.And I, as it did seem, the one thing of life in all that desolation andeternity of rock and stone, there in the end part of the great Gorge.And I peered forth into the wonder of the light, and was full ofthrillings and fancies that I was surely come to the place where theLesser Redoubt had been builded. And immediately I knew that this was
[SURPRISE][DANGER][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][HORROR]not so, for surer had not Naani told how that they were in a land ofdarkness. And if this did be so, truly, how wondrous and dread a way hadI yet to go, if that this Country of Seas and mighty volcanoes stoodbetween.Surely, it did seem to me then as that I must wander searching unto theworld's end. And so shall you be company unto me there with my troubleand my thoughts, and the immediate wonder and strange glory of thatmighty Country.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]IXTHE DARK PYRAMIDNow in two hours more I was come clear down out of the Gorge, and stoodin that Country; and for all that I did feel fresh troubled andbewildered, yet was I rejoiceful, as you may believe, in the surprisinglight and splendour of that sudden Land.And before that I had come down out of the great Gorge, I had stood highwithin the mouth thereof, and lookt well out over the mighty Country.And I had counted seven and twenty great volcanoes, and this doth nottake heed of two monstrous ranges of fire-hills that burned afar off,something unto my right. Neither doth it take account of an hundredthousand lesser places of fire.
And truly it did seem a very land of fire and water. For there was asmall fire-hill stood within a sea, as it did seem no more than a littlemile from that place where I did stand. And maybe a score to the back ofit, spread all about. And here shall I do proper to tell concerning theseas. For there were of these, that I did count at that time, three that
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT][TRANSITION]were small, and a mighty sea that went onward for ever into the redlight of the fire-hills, so that it was gone utterly out of my sight,and did show no ending.And there rose up out of the seas, islands; and on the islands,volcanoes. But in other parts the fire-hills did come upward straightlyfrom the sea. And over the near sea, as it did seem, there lay aplentitude of steam, as that the sea did boil at whiles and in diverseplaces.
[SURPRISE]And there did seem to me, as it were within the red atmosphere of thatplace, as that there were a muttering thunder, low and constant, shakingthe air, now from that distance and now from this, and this did I judgeto be the voices of the fire-hills, speaking with the fire that lived inthem.And you shall conceive how utter new was all this unto me; for there wasin that Country a constant Voice of the Energy of Life, so that theWorld-Noise of this our Age was even there again, and with a keen andundoubted apparentness; and the more so some ways, than now.And here shall I set down more closely the things that were ready to mygaze.And first, that it did much attract me, there was a huge and blackenedmountain unto the left of the mouth of the Gorge, and the mountain didgo upward into the night, maybe fifteen and maybe twenty miles. And
[MONSTER]there was a mighty peaked volcano that grew out from the side of themountain so high up as five miles, as I did guess that height; and thiswas upon the far side. And above this there was a second, maybe nine orten great miles up in the blackness of the night that hung afar upward.And, as that this were not great wonder enough, there did burn and glowtwo other mighty fire-hills, at an utter height, upon the left crest ofthat black mountain; and these were upward so monstrous a way, as thatthey did seem to make strange and smouldering suns within the night. Andtruly, as you shall perceive, this was a wondrous thing.
[SURPRISE][GORE]And below these upward fire-hills there rose up from the earth vastmountains of ash and burned stuff, that had been cast forth by theseperched volcanoes, and had poured downward unto the earth throughoutEternity, and so to build grey and sombre monuments unto the dreadfulglory of Time.And to my right there was always sea and sea and the red blazing of thefire-hills; but unto my left, there were mighty forests, and there roseupward here and in that place, as that they were beyond the great woods,monstrous fire-hills. And so do you take from me something of that firstimpressing upon my brain and sense.And after that I had come down out of the mouth of the great Gorge, as Idid tell a little while gone, I came upon a pause; for, surely, whichway was the way proper unto my search. And I lookt about for a great
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT]while, and afterward did climb back into the Gorge, and called myselffoolish, that I had not thought to map my way ere I came down.And when I was come up into the Gorge again, lo! I saw that there wasbut one way that I should go; for truly, as I have said, there was onlythe seas unto my right; but unto the left, where the shores did meet theseas, there seemed, so far as mine eyes did tell to me, a clear way fora space. And mayhap, when I had come so far, I should even find afurther way to go forward. And so did I descend again unto the Country
of the Seas, as I did ever call that red-shining country of water andfire.And by, that I was come again from the height of the Gorge, it was fourand twenty hours since that I did last sleep; so that I was fain that Ishould put into some nook, and come to slumber, as you shall wellbelieve.And I found me a neat and proper place, where three great trees grewabout a little basin of rock that was very dry and warm. And here, afterthat I had eat three of the tablets, and drunk some of the water--thewhile that my belly did yearn, as ever, for proper eating-stuff--I mademy bed in the little basin of the rock, and lay me down, and did beginto think awhile upon Naani; but was gone over to sleep before that I wasaware.
[EMOTION][RELIEF][SURPRISE]And lo! I was suddenly awake, and did find that I swam in a hot water;and a mercy, I did think, was it that I was not drowned as I did sleep.And I gat me to my feet, and the basin was full of water, hot andsteaming, and pungent to the taste, as well I did know. And I perceivednow that the water poured in from a smoothed slit upon the far side, anddid come with a strange gurgling and bubbling, so that I conceived somedeep well to boil, and thus to drive upward this water into the basin;and glad was I that it did not boil as it came forth.
And surely, now that I was upon the dry land, and did consider, I didquickly suppose that the water had poured forth at seasons into thebasin for an eternity of time, and afterward did go back by fissures inthe bottom of the basin; and this to happen, as I soon did find, alittle beyond the length of every hour; and, indeed the basin to emptyslow as I did watch.Now, being much wetted, I stript off mine armour, having before thisdipt out mine effects from the hot pool, and so did come down to thenaked flesh, and I found a place where the rock was hot, and here I didspread my garments. And whilst that they came to dryness, I gat me intothe hot pool, and had a very pleasant bathing, and did have no greatfear of any dangerous thing; for, as it did seem, I had surely left allsuch behind, within the Night Lands. Yet did I have the Diskos upon thepool edge to my hand; for I had no proper assurance in this matter. Yet,
as it did prove, there were many monstrous beasts in that Country; butnever did I feel the nearness and horrid power of any Evil Force; forthese, as I do conceive, were congregate and gathered about the MightyPyramid, being attracted thereto by the great spiritual essence of sowondrous a multitude of humans gotten so close in one spot, even assharks do come after the ship that hath bullocks within. Yet, how thatthe Evil Powers were given entrance unto this State of our Life, I haveno sure knowing; yet have I put forward certain thoughts on this matterin an earlier place; and more than such thinkings is surely vanity; forthere is no certainty in my Reasoning concerning the thing.Now, presently was my clothing dry, yet before this, I had come out fromthat bath, which truly was nigh all gone backward into the earth. And Idressed me again, and got my armour upon me, and afterward was I in amore lightsome state of the mind; and yet very ready to come again untomy sleep. And this I did, and had six hours more beside the pool; and
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][TRANSITION][RELIEF][PERSPECTIVE][FLASHBACK]once was wakened somewhat by the gruntling and bubbling noise of thewater, that was made as the pool did fill time and again.And when the six hours were gone, I waked very well fitted in my sensesand feelings to go forward again through that red-lighted Country, andthis I did, after that I had eat and drunk.Now all that day I went forward at a great pace; and the nameless woodswere unto my left, and the shores of the seas unto my right. And oft didI find that the trees grew even into the water, so that oft did I goforward among the trees, and a very wonderful thing was this to me, thatnever had known before in all my life, until I was come into thatCountry, how that a glad and wild mystery doth live among forest trees.
[RELIEF]For there was no such strange wildness among the groves of theUnderground Fields; though a solemn beauty in plenty. And the scent ofthe woods was sweet unto my spirit, as you shall wot.Now all the time that I did go, there was the shore unto my right; butalway to my left, and around me oft-times as I did say, the greatforests. And as I did go, lo! there was life in all those darksome
woods, and living eyes did peer out odd whiles upon me, and afterward gobackward into the dark; so that I wotted not whether to fear, or to haveno heed of trouble. Yet naught did come anigh to me, to make any hurt.And thrice in that day did I come to little fire-hills that burnt redly,and sent out fire and noise, so that I heard their trouble each timethrough the forest, before that I was come to them. And about each wasthere a deadness and desolation, where the fire had killed the bigtrees; yet, as I did observe, the quick life of little plants did growmore nigh, as that they were born and lived between the times of thefire-bursts. And this I do take it that you perceive.
And in that one day I past thirty and seven boiling springs; but whetherthey boiled truly, I do have no knowledge; only that they sent out agreat steam oft-times; and some did make a strong roaring noise; so thatto hear them afar off in the forests was to think odd times that somewild beast roared strangely.Now, when the eighteenth hour was come, I sat me down, as I had doneupon the sixth and the twelfth hours, and eat two of the tablets, anddrank some of the water, which here did fizz very rich and quick.And afterward I lay down to my slumber, for I was greatly wearied. And Ihad chosen a place against a great rock, which was so that no creaturemight come upon me from behind. And I came easy upon sleep; but yet I
[EMOTION]did fix it upon me that I slumber only with the body; for I did know, bythe shining of the eyes in the darksome woods, that strange creaturesabode in the mighty forests.And ere I was gone over to sleep, I thought upon Naani, as I had donemuch all that day, as though her spirit did hover near unto mine, anddid strive pitiful to speak with me. And this I set out to you, that youshall know how it did seem unto me in my thoughts and fancyings. And asI lay there, I put a blessing upon her, and a determination into myheart that I make a more desperate speed of my going, if that might be;so that I come the sooner to that strange, and unknown place in the deadworld where did stand the lesser Refuge. And I was then asleep in a
[DANGER][RELIEF][TRANSITION][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][CONFLICT][RESOLUTION][EXPOSITION][HORROR]moment.And lo! sudden I was awake. And lovely was the brightness of thatCountry, that did show me in a moment my danger, and did not keep mesuspend in fearful Doubt, as did the grey darkness and strange shadowsand lights of the Night Land. For I saw, on the instant that I got me to
[EMOTION][FLASHBACK][DANGER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][HORROR]mine elbow, how that certain things did crouch within the borders of thetrees, no more than a score paces off. And I perceived in a moment thatmy spirit had been given knowledge, and had wakened me. And I stared,the while that I did grip the Diskos; and I saw that there were sixsquat men that were humpt at the neck and shoulder; and they did crouchall there in a row, and were something hid by the shadows; and Iperceived that they watched me; and the eyes of the men did shine likethe eyes of beasts; and so shall you know somewhat of the strange terrorthat came upon me. Yet had I the Diskos and mine armour; and though myheart did shake a little, yet was my spirit assured to conquer.
[SURPRISE][DANGER][EMOTION]Now I gat me to my feet, and had the Diskos ready within my hand; andbehold! I could not see the Humped Men, for they were gone from thatplace; yet never did I see them go, though I had kept my gaze verysteadfast upon that part where they did hide. And, as you shallunderstand, I was near ready to believe that there had been nothingthere within the border of the wood; yet truly I knew that the men withthe humps had been there, as I had seen.Now, I looked presently, and found that I had slept five hours; and Ieat two of the tablets, as I did stand there, watchful; and afterwarddrank some of the water; and so was ready to go forward again; for I wasgrown very anxious to be gone from that place; and did have no knowledgebut that those strangely humpt Men were but a little way off, among thetrees, and might come upon me in a moment; or, further, that they did goto call an army of other humped men to my destruction.
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT]And after that I was ready, and had my gear secure upon me, I set off ata great stride, and did hold the Diskos very handy, and lookt this wayand lookt that way, and all the while made onward with speed; for,truly, I was grown so lean and hard that it did seem to me that I hadpower to out-pace those men or aught else of their kind.And all that day, through thirty great hours did I go forward, at thatstride, and did always watch; and at every sixth hour, I eat two of thetablets and drank a little of the water, and went onward again.And so did I hope that I was lost from those Humped Men. Yet, though Idid hope, my faith was not this wise; for twice and thrice did it cometo me that there went things through the woods to my left all that day,and did keep always to a level with my speed; yet were always hid. And,
[SURPRISE][HORROR]as you shall believe, this did be a very shaking thing to my heart, anddid make my hope of but little account.Now, because that I had no faith to company my hope, I was not easy tohave slumber, until that I was come to a place proper and safe. And so,as I have told, I went onward through thirty great hours; and, in truth,in all that while I did find nowhere that did seem to fit my need.And lo! about the end of the thirtieth hour, I perceived that there was
[SURPRISE]water ahead, besides the water of the sea that was ever to my right. AndI thought, maybe, that the sea did go inward at that part of the land;but it was otherwise; for when I was gotten to that place, I found thata river came into the sea, and did come out of all the country that layunto my left.And in the mouth of this river, there was a small island; and surely Idid look across to the island, and think it a refuge from the Humped Menthat did surely play dog upon my going. Yet, truly, this was but an idlethought, and my need was that I should come to some way to cross overthe river, that I go forward beside the great sea, which did stretchonward, as it did seem for ever, before me upon the far side.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][ACTION][METAPHOR]And I knew not how to go across; for I had no power to swim, and had Iswum, there were surely monsters in that great and warm-flowing river,as you shall believe.And I went upward of the river-bank, that I might come to some placewhere the river did narrow; and surely I had been like to walk a mightydistance to this purpose, but that I came soon to a second river thatdid enter the first, not a mile above the shore of the sea; so that, asyou do perceive, there was the sea to one side of me, and this secondriver unto the other, and the first river before me; and thus was Isorely perplexed, as any had been truly that was in a like trouble.Yet, as it did chance, the need to go forward, and the danger of theHumped Men, put wit into me, so that I lookt about for a tree that wasfallen. And there were many, yet great, so that I was much wearied andsomething strained of the spirit, before that I gat two little treesunto the water.
[ACTION][TRANSITION][DANGER]Now, when this was done, I made me a rough pole of a young tree-plant;and afterward, I lashed the two trees together with my belts and straps,and so had somewhat of a raft.And you shall picture that, all the time as I did go about thisbusiness, I was very heedful lest the Humped Men should come upon me,ere that I was gone free upon the water. And this constant heeding diddouble the labour of my work, as you shall perceive; yet, in the end, itwas done, and I ready to adventure over the river.And so I did push off with the pole, and I pusht and paddled maybe thehalf of an hour, for, indeed it was all a clumsy contriving, and mayhapI the more so in my labours. Yet, presently, I was come so far over,
that I drew nigh to the island; and it did seem a wise and proper thingthat I should have my slumber there, and afterward go onward to thefarther shore. And this I did; and after that I had eat and drunk, asever, I lay down to sleep. And by this time it was three and thirtyhours since last I did slumber; so that I was bitterly awearied.And I had a great and restful sleep; for, truly, the island did seem avery safe place; and, in verity, I came to no harm, though I was as adead man for nine great hours; and so shall you perceive my weariness.
And when I was come proper awake, I eat two of the tablets, and dranksome of the water; and afterward made an end of my voyage, and then didtake back my belts and straps from binding the trees, and so forwardagain upon my way, and no more fearful of the Humped Men; for, surely, Idid think I had left them all upon the far shore of the river; thoughafterward I minded me that they might grow likewise upon the two sides;but yet was I only discovered by those upon the one, as you do know.And all that day I went very swift, and past many strange matters anddid coast upon wonders oft. And at the sixth and the twelfth hours did Ieat and drink, as ever; and between the eighth and the fourteenth hoursdid I come past two mighty fire-hills, that made all the Country totremble with their noise. And four times did monstrous creatures pass byme; but I was swift hid, and came to no harm.
And oft as I did go, were my thoughts upon the dear Maid that Ijourneyed to save from destruction. Yet, as you must see, always were mythinkings brought sharply unto my going; so that scarce was I ever setoff to ponder upon Naani, but that there came some danger or wonder togive me heed to my way. And because of this, as you have learned, I wasmore put to plan free of the instant trouble and peril of my way,through all that mighty journey, than to have quiet chance for thoughtsof love unto mine Own. Yet, truly, was not my journey one whole thoughtof love unto Naani? And, that peril made oft dumb my brain, was but the
[METAPHOR]truer song unto my Maid.And at times I was among trees; but oft did go past unnumbered boilingsprings and small fire-hills; and oft was the air full of the noise ofthe little fire-hills, and the roar of the boiling springs; but therecame no harm unto me.And a thousand times did I perceive things that had life; and I made avery cautious way; though with a great speed and cleverness of goingthat made my heart glad.And oft did I come to parts where a great life held the trees, and greenstuff did flourish exceedingly, and the air rich and full and wondroussweet; so that I was fain to think how that in some far-off time, itmight be that our children's children should come down unto thisCountry, when the Upper Valley of the Night Land was grown to an utterchill and lacking of air; and here build them a new Refuge, if, indeedany should come clear of the Evil Forces and the Monsters that did liveabout the Mighty Pyramid in the Night Land. Yet, how should they come
clear of those things; so that this is, as you do perceive, no more thana thought that did rise vaguely in me. And yet, again, who shall saywhat may be?And onward I did pass, and I do mind me how that I saw the lower firesof that Country to burn very fierce; and this I set to the richness ofthe air; but yet with no surety of knowledge; and do but tell the samethat you shall see the oddments of thought that went oft across mybrain, and so have so much knowledge as I, concerning this and that.Now, a little before the eighteenth hour was come, I came out from amongthe trees, and the sea was downward of a great cliff unto my right, forI had gone upward for a long and weary hour. And I did see now a thing
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION][MONSTER]that made me to be cautious, and yet that did hold my heart to goswiftly to perceive the thing; for it was very strange.And I went forward quickly, yet with a wise care; and so was comepresently more nigh. And I perceived that the thing was, in part, a highrock, very tall and pointed and maybe an hundred feet high; butafterward I did find it to be more. And there was a monstrous greatthing upon the top of the rock, that did seem very strange; and I stoptand lookt, and afterward went forward again; and so for a time, untilthat I was but a little way off. And now I saw that there did seem to be
[SURPRISE]a mighty long rock laid across the topmost part of the upstanding rock,and yet had a very strange and shapely appearance; and did seem upon theunderpart to be as that I had lookt before upon it. And upon the upperpart, there grew trees and green things, even as these did grow upon oddledges of the upstanding rock. Yet, for the most, the rock was verystark, as that a blast had blown upon it, and made it bare.Now, when I had lookt for a while, I bethought me that this should be asafe and proper place for my slumber, if that I had power to come safeto the top. And when I had thought this thing, I began at once to climb
up the rock; and I found that the rock was very high; so that in a whileI was come a great way off the earth, and yet was not come to the top ofthe rock. And because that I was awearied, I lookt about for a safeplace to mine hand, and lo! there was a shelf of the rock very nigh,that went inward a little to the side.And I gat me to this ledge, and did eat and drink, and presently Islept, and scarce had thought of Naani in the moment of my slumbering;for a great weariness was upon me, the which I do think to have come byreason that I was not yet proper rested from the task of the day thatwas gone before that one.
Now I waked very sudden, maybe seven hours after; and I had knowledgewithin me that my spirit did wot of some nigh danger. And I gat upwardfrom the rock, very quiet, and had the Diskos ready in my hand. And Ilookt swift about me in the moment that I did wake; yet did see nothing;for there was naught on the ledge with me.And I crept to the edge, and lookt downward, and lo! I did see that
[DANGER][EMOTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][DEATH][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][TRANSITION][MONSTER]there came up the rock two Humped Men; and they did climb very swift andsilent; and I perceived that they smelled me, and came to destroy me.And I made ready the Diskos to do battle, and ceased not to lookdownward. And I saw how that the Humped Men did seem to be humpt byreason of their being so monstrous thick and mighty of the neck and theshoulder, as that they had been human bulls. And I saw that they werevery strong, and by the speed of their climbing, I knew they were swift;and so did I make steady my attention and my heart to the saving of mylife; for truly I did know that I should be dead in a little, or they.
[SURPRISE]Now I stept back a space from the edge of the rock, and had the Diskosvery ready; for it was needful that I should kill one of those brute menspeedy, that I have no danger that one take me in the back, whilst thatI fight with the other.Then, in a moment it did seem, there came upward of the rock edge, thegreat and brutish face of the man. And in that moment that I slew him, Idid note curiously how that he had large teeth upon each side of themouth; and was aware that he had come so quiet as a great cat. And inthe backward parts of my brain, I bethought that even thus, maybe, wasprimal man, so that a strange and secondary questioning and wonderingdid live in that part of me; and I did learn from these scarce consciousreasonings that I was of belief the thing was truly a man; but verycrude and dangerous. And surely it is strange that I had all this
[DEATH]thought in that little moment; but in verity so it was; though I doubtnot but I bettered it with after thoughts, when a while had gone.Now the first man died ere his great haired breast was come upward overthe rock; and he sank back, and sagged and fell dully, and I heard himbodge downward from rock to rock, very lumbersome; and so in a momentwas silence.Then did I look this way and that way of the ledge; for the second HumptMan was not yet upon me; and I feared that the pause did mean a cunningmischief and strategy. And when a little time had past, and all thewhile I was ready with the Diskos, and naught did come upward to harmme, I stept very soft to the edge of the rock-ledge, and lookt downward;but there was nowhere any thing to see.
Now, for a little moment, I did think that the brutish man had run off,being feared by the death that I did deal unto the first; yet I put thisfrom me at once; for I did wot that such a creature did not be like tofear in such wise; but was rather set to some horrid cunning of attack,as I did fear, and was somewhere below me among the holes of the greatrock.Then I did think sudden that he might be gone upward, so that he shouldcome down upon my back, and I lookt upward of the mighty rock; but didsee naught; and afterward I stoopt forward a great way beyond the edge,so that I should perceive whether the man did hide beneath. And, behold!he was there below me, and crouched under the rock-shelf, ready to hisspring. And in that moment, he made unto me with so mighty a leap as any
tiger should give. And he came half over the edge, and gript the Diskosby the handle, in an instant.And surely I had lost that trusted weapon, or been pulled over and castinto the depth, but that the Diskos did spin, and the Earth-Current didmake live the handle--as was intended--save where the [DIALOGUE]"grip" was set.And lo! the man gave loose the handle very swift, for it had burned and
[ACTION][CONFLICT][MONSTER]shaken the creature sore. And I staggered back, with the effort I hadmade to withhold the Diskos; and the brutish man came upward again overthe rock edge, and leapt at me. Yet he gat me not; for I sprang unto myright, and made a blow with the Diskos, even as I did leap. And the blowcame something short; but yet harmed the Humpt Man with a gash upon thebelly, very sore and horrid among the great brown hairs of the man. And
[ACTION][MONSTER]immediately he sprang after me; but I smote full at the face; so that heleaped back from the strange roar and blaze of the Diskos, and yet washarmed; for he gat not right free of the blow; but did be cut very soreon the mighty and haired arm.Now, seeing that he was something feared of the weapon, I ran in uponhim, and smote again at the face; yet was the man gone out of my reachbefore that the blow did reach; for, truly, he was quick as a panther.And immediately, he did leap unto the ending of the ledge, where it didjoin upon the Rock; and he caught the living Rock between his two hands.And truly the Rock must have been splitten there; for he tore out amonstrous lump, so great near as my body; and did run upon me with therock above the head of him.
[ACTION][DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE]Now, I perceived I should be smashed in a moment, if that I did not slaythe man very quick. For so mighty was he, that he did leap this way andthat way after me, as though the great rock did cumber him no more thanit had been but a light matter.And you shall perceive that I leapt this way and that way, to avoid theman; and twice did strike him; but yet was feared to brake the Diskosupon the rock, which the man did use as a shield each time that I didmake a blow. And all the while, I did act to escape when that the manshould cast the rock, as I did conceive at the first to be his intent.
[METAPHOR][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE]Yet, truly, it was as that he had no wotting that a rock may be thrown;for he strave only to come at me with the rock, that he should crush me,as with a monstrous club. And, in verity, what should a man do againstso horrid an attack.And time and oft did I leap now to the right and now to the left, andagain in a moment, I did cut the Humpt Man; but the blow was somethingturned off by the great rock in the hands of the man; yet so strange andmighty was the power of the Diskos, that it shore away a small portionof the rock, and did come to no hurt in itself.And, surely I had presently failed in wind and limb, because of theleapings and chargings that I did make; and because of the weight of thearmour, that was not overmuch, yet to be considered; but that I faintednot, was by reason of the wondrous hardness and leanness that I wasgrown to, with so constant a journeying and strait living; for thetablets did keep the strength in a man, though, truly, they eased notthe yearnings of the belly.
[ACTION]And lo! even the brutish man did grow weary, and the hot breath andbody-stink to come from him; and surely who shall wonder, for always hedid rush to and fro upon me, with the monstrous rock to crush me. Andsudden, I leapt unto the right of the man, thinking within me that I didperceive a chance that I should cut him upon that side; but, truly, hewas less awearied than I did know; for he came very sharp upon me, andhad me between him and the wall of the Rock; and surely I had no room tomake escape, and had died in a moment, but that I made a sudden shamtoward the left with the Diskos, as that I should leap that way. And inthe same instant, I did go to the right with a strong bounding; andimmediately did come in upon the Humpt Man from that side; and I put myfortune of life to the stroke, and stood anigh to the man, and I smotehim across the middle part, before that he did wot of my intent. And the
[EMOTION][RELIEF]blow slew the man very surely, and did nigh cut the mighty creature intwain. And surely he fell, half leaping even as he died, so that themonstrous rock that was in the hands of the brutish man, did crash downalmost upon my feet, and I leapt very high that I should escape thethundering of the rock; for in verity, I was near slain in that lastmoment of the life of the Humpt Man. But yet I lived and came free ofdeath, and did have a relief of happiness about my heart, as you shallbelieve.Yet, truly, I was much shaken; and a little weakness took me, so that Iwas fain to go down upon the rock-shelf, that I have back my strength.
[DANGER]And presently, I was grown steady again, and I took my gear, and didhaste down the Rock, and so was come presently to the earth again. And Isaw the first of the Humpt Men that I did slay, lying very quiet alittle off from the bottom of the Rock; so that I went round upon theother side to avoid the man; for it was no pleasure to mine eyes or tomy heart. And, truly, it did trouble me always to make a death.And when I was come round upon the other, which was the seaward, side ofthe Rock, I perceived that I was yet shaken; and I remembered that itwere wise to eat and drink and rest a little, before that I did gofurther upon my way.
Now, as I did sit there at the bottom of the Rock, I looked upward atthe strange crown thereof; and until that time, I had been taken up withthe fight and with gazings this way and that to see whether there cameothers of the Humped Men to work me an harm.But now that I was given some ease of the mind and of the body, I sawplainly that I knew the thing that lay upward upon the Rock; for theshape had been something strange and half-known to me even before thatmoment, as that I had a vague knowledge concerning it; but yet with nosurety. And now, truly, I did know in a little instant that the thingwas one of the olden flying-ships, the which, as you shall mind, therewere certain in the Great Museum of the Mighty Pyramid.And surely, I was ready to wonder why that I had not seen the thingplain before that moment; yet was this like to be because that there wasa shadow upon the other side of the great Rock; but upon this side therewas a little fire-hill a way off to the cliff edge, and this did throw awarm light that made a glimmer upon the dull metal of the ship's bottom,which was uncovered to my sight, and was surely of that same deathlessgrey metal that made the Great Redoubt.
And yet, as you shall believe, even as I said this thing to my mind,that the strange matter upon the top of the Rock was truly one of theolden air-ships, I did feel that I should be proper to doubt; for it wasa very wondrous thing to perceive a thing common to man, in that utterstrange Country, and after that I was gone so far off from the MightyPyramid. Yet, in verity, I did know in my heart that it was indeed thatwhich I did perceive it to be; and I did stand and walk to and fore andlook upward constant; for I was very keen that I look well upon it.And truly, as I did look from this place and from that place, it wasscarce a thing for wonder that I had not wotted it to be an air vessel;for there were great trees and abundance of earth and living mattersupon the topmost side of the ship; so that none could easy perceive itto be aught save a great and desolate rock that did lie upon the otherrock. Yet, truly, it was as I have told; and presently I did make toclimb upward of the great Rock, that I should come to the air vessel toenter it. But yet was this not proper; for I had surely no duty save to
go forward forever, until that I found the Maid; but yet did I spend alittle while to this searching of the ship; and I do but set down thatwhich I did, and with a serious spirit. And truly, as it doth here occurto me, I do be ever seeming a serious young man, as you maybe shall havegrown to think; but yet was I to a dread and serious business, and thestrain did be too great upon me and the trouble too much prest upon myheart to give me much of laughter, as you do surely perceive, and so youto give me your ear and your understanding. For, indeed, before that Idid lose Mirdath my Beautiful One, I was not over-grave; but so youngand joyous as any.Now it took me a great time to go upward of the Rock; for it was somonstrous steep and high. Yet, presently was I come nigh under the
[SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][TRANSITION]bottom of the ship; and here I did perceive that she had been sorebattered in that far-off age when she did come upon the Rock; for,surely, as I did perceive, the peak of the Rock was through the bottomof the ship, so that the metal was burst this way and that, and veryplain to be seen in some parts; but in other places the earth andgrowing matters did make a hiding.And after that I had climbed this way and that way, I perceived that Imust come to the topmost part by the plants that did hang over, and growdownward. And after that I had pulled upon them, to know that they werestrong to hold me, I went upon them, and was soon to the top of theship. Yet, truly, I might so well have been upon the earth; for the shipwas covered above by the earth and dust of a monstrous age of years; sothat I was like to need much time to dig downward unto the ship; andbecause of this, I considered a little while, and afterward made no moreto search her; but did go downward again, that I should come once moreto my journey. Yet, as you shall think, it was with a queer thrilling of
the heart, and with strange thoughts upon the end of those that didcome, maybe, to a bitter and lonesome dying in that ship of the air, inthat far-off time when she did fly.And surely, it did seem to me as I went downward of the great Rock, howthat the flying-ship had been there for an hundred thousand years; andthat mayhaps the sea did live all about the Rock in that Age; and trulythis was no improper thing to think, for it was like that the sea hadbeen monstrous high and great in those days; so that the Rock was but alittle island in the midst of the sea; and now was the sea gone smallfrom a great sea to lesser seas, and this through an eternity of years.And always, as it doth seem to me, had the ship lain upon the Rock, andlookt quiet and silent over the change and wonder and the lonesomenessof all that Country of Fire and water, for ever.But how the air-ship did come upon the rock, how shall I know; save,maybe, it doth seem as that she might have flown low over the sea inthat olden age, and come hard upon the Rock, because, maybe, there wasone to the helm that did steer unwittingly. And again, it shall well be
[FLASHBACK][SETTING][TRANSITION]otherwise, and I do but set down mine odd thoughts; and such as they be,they have no especial use, save that they do show to you the differentworkings of my mind at that time, as I did go downward. And so to setyou the more in possession of all that I did have knowledge of.And presently, I was come again to the earth, and did go forward with agreat speed, so that I should waste no more of that day. Yet, oft did Ithink upon that ship hid there upon the mighty Rock, under the wondrousquiet ashes of eternity.
[ACTION][PERSPECTIVE][WEAPON][SURPRISE][CONTEXT][TRANSITION]And I went eighteen hours walking, and in all that time I did see nomore of the Humped Men; yet three times was I put in a sudden danger,for there went past me thrice, between the fourteenth and theseventeenth hours, great flying monsters, that were winged very ugly,and did go, as I thought, in a great bounding, rather than that they didfly proper as doth a bird. Yet I suffered no hurt from these; for I wasswift to hide between the great boulders that were very plenty in thatpart; but no trees. For I was gone now past the forests of trees; therebeing none since that I had gone through a very shallow river, that Icame to about the thirteenth hour. And this had I waded, and sounded mypath with the staff of the Diskos; but I had kept mine armour upon me,lest there be things, even in water so shallow, that might bite and workharm upon me. But I gat through pretty quick, and had no hurt done me.
[ACTION][EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][PERSPECTIVE][PROBLEM]Now I had eat, as ever, at the sixth and the twelfth hours; and by thatthe eighteenth hour was come, I was nigh again unto a forest, that camedown to the shore that went alway upon my right; and I to be very soreand wearied, as you shall know; for I had fought very desperate after mywaking, and afterward climbed the great Rock, and then again to journey,so that it was, by this, nigh to one and twenty hours since that I didsleep.And surely, I lookt this way and that way, constant, and did see noplace proper to my slumber. But afterward, I considered I did be a fool,to lack such; for truly the trees were plentiful, and I could climb agreat one, and strap my body safe, and so have a sure bed for my rest.And I did this thing, and went upward into a great tree, and did tie mybody to the tree, with my belts; yet I eat and drank before that I wentup the tree.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION]Now when I was fast upward in the tree, and had made a bed upon amonstrous branch, and had the Diskos ready upon my hip, so that itshould not fall but be nigh to my hand, I lay a little while thinkingupon Naani; and I went not over to sleep immediately, which was strange;yet mayhaps because that my bed was so uncertain.And I considered very gravely how that it was a monstrous long whilesince that I did hear the Master-Word from the dear Maid; and truly Iwas come a dreadful way from mine home, which was the Mighty Pyramid;for I had gone onward for ever through five and twenty great days oftravel, and was not yet come to any place that did appear like to bethat place where the Maid did abide.And it did seem that I might even wander onward in that great Country ofFire and Water for a time beyond all that I had before gone; and thisthought did put a great weight of trouble and weariness upon my heart;for the Maid had been in sore need of me, and I did feel sudden to beall adrift in the wilderness. But before this time, it had seemed asthat I surely went aright. And mayhaps your sympathy shall tell you just
[PERSPECTIVE]how I to feel in the heart.And after that I had lain there very awkward, and thought upon allmatters, I minded me that I would try the compass again upon the morrow;but had no great hopes of the machine; yet did be willing to try aughtto see where I had gotten to. And truly, as it did come to my mind, ifthat the compass did point a little as I did wot it was used to point inthe Lesser Redoubt, then, in verity, I was surely come something moreanigh to that unknown place of the world than I did dare to believe. Andthis to be plain to you.
Then a little time did pass in which I did wake and sleep, and wake andsleep, a little; but with no surety of sleep; but as that I was verytired of the heart, and did but lie too wearied to come properly tosleep.And odd whiles I did lie with mine eyes half to open, and did look verydreamful upward among the dark branches of the tree, as they did showblack and pretty against the redness of the shining that came from thesea; for there was stood a great and bright-burning fire-hill in thatpart of the sea that lay off the shore from me. And above the glaring ofthe fire-hill, there was the deep night that did brood for ever above ina monstrous black gloom of eternity, and did make the red smoke of thevolcano to show deep and mighty and thunderous-seeming, afar up in thegreat dark. And the red and shining smoke did but show the utterhugeness of the night, that had been upon the world through the greatages.
[SURPRISE][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION]And, in verity, as I did lie there so dreamful, it did come to me afreshhow wondrous strange was mine adventure; and how that I did lie warm andalive in a Country of red light and smoking seas. And, truly, as I didremember and consider, there was a great and lost world above me, upwardthrough the dark ... maybe an hundred and fifty great miles up in the
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM][EMOTION][DANGER][PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR][CONFLICT][DEATH][HORROR]grim night.And this thing did strike me very solemn, as I did lie; and I do trustthat you conceive how that there was, in truth, afar above in theeternal and unknown night, the stupendous desolation of the dead world,and the eternal snow and starless dark. And, as I do think, a cold sobitter that it held death to all living that should come anigh to it.Yet, bethink you, if one had lived in that far height of the dead world,and come upon the edge of that mighty valley in which all life that wasleft of earth, did abide, they should have been like to look downwardvaguely into so monstrous a deep that they had seen naught, mayhaps,save a dull and utter strange glowing far downward in the great night,in this place and in that.
[TRANSITION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]And surely, as you shall have seen, I have set the Great Deep of theValley to be, maybe, an hundred and fifty miles of night; for, as you domind, it was conceived that the Valley of the Night Land was an hundredmiles deep, and mayhap to be more; and I had come from that Placedownward of the Mighty Slope, and of the Gorge, a very great way. Yet,in verity, I do believe in my heart this measuring was utter wrong; forI think the deep to have been monstrous, beyond these miles that I dogive; yet have I no proving of this belief, and do set it down for nomore than it is.Now, presently, I had ceased from these vague thinkings and halfdreamings, and was gone truly to sleep. Yet, nowise did I sleep verystrong; but did seem to come anigh to wakefulness, this time and that.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][ACTION][TRANSITION][CONFLICT][RELIEF][MONSTER]And, as it did chance, this was mayhaps a very good thing for my life;for I did presently come awake more surely, and did turn on the greatbranch; for there was a noise in the air, that was not the noise of thegreat fire-hill.And the noise did grow, very heavy and lumbersome. And, in a moment,there came seven Humped Men, running among the trees, as that somemonstrous thing did pursue. And immediately they were beneath the treein which I did lie; so that a great fear came upon me, and I loosed thebelt from the branch, that I should be free to fight.
And, directly upon this, I saw that the men did leap upward into thetree, beneath me; but not as that they did wot of me or make to come atme; but as that they did pay a great heed to some creature or happeningthat was far off among the trees. And surely, the noise did seem to comefrom that part, and did grow loud and mighty, and the Humped Men did allcrouch very silent, and did make no noise or motion one to the other;but were quiet upon the lower branches.And, as I did look now more to my ease, I perceived that they had each agreat stone, and bloody, that did seem as that it were split to acertain sharpness, even as a stone doth break very natural. And theycarried the stone under this arm or under that arm, so that they hadtheir hands free to all matters.
[SURPRISE][MONSTER]And, alway the noise did come the more anigh, and I saw that a HumpedMan did come running from among the trees, and did run beneath thatplace where the seven Humped Men did be on the branches. But they madeno sign to the man, to save him; yet truly it was very plain that somemonster pursued the man.And immediately I saw how this thing was; for the Humped Man upon theground, did not run so fast as might be; and I conceived that he did actto make some creature to come after him, to pass under the men withinthe tree. And surely this thing did prove to be; for there came veryquick, a great and ugly thing, that had an ugly way of putting down thefeet, and did have seven feet to each side, which was very strange; andthe back was as that it were horny, and the belly of the thing did seemto brush heavy upon the earth, and it grunted, as it went, and shook theearth with the weight of it; so that a monstrous noise came from it,upon so hasty a journey. And I did wot that it was not such a thing as
[ACTION][CONFLICT][DANGER][EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONTEXT][WEAPON][PROBLEM][MONSTER]did properly pursue after matters of food; but did rather eat of thatwhich did need little haste, but a monstrous strength, to gain. And thatit did so make after the man, was in truth because that it had beenwounded and made fierce; for, indeed, there came blood from the creaturefrom great wounds upon the back; but how these were made, I could notknow in that instant.And it did go under the tree in which I was hid; and in that moment whenit past under the tree, the seven Humped Men did leap out of thebranches, and did catch to the brute by the great horns of the spine;and I saw that the wounds were in the joints of the spine, as was plainwhen the back did work, with the going of the creature. And the sevenHumped Men took the sharp stones from under their arms, and did strikevery brutal in the wounds that were in the joints of the spine; and thecreature roared and cried, and went onward into the trees at a greatspeed; and in all the time that it ran, the Humped Men ceased not tostrike with the stones.
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION][ACTION][CONFLICT]And sudden, when it was gone a distance off, it did roll very swift overupon the back, first to the right, as that it would go that way; so thatthe Humped Men did leap off upon the other side. And immediately thecreature rolled to that side; and there ran clear of the brute only fourof the Humped Men; so that I knew that three were slain. And afterwards,they that lived, ran beyond the beast, and gat up into a second tree,and the one that was chased, did entice the creature to follow, and sodid tease it once more to pass beneath the other men; and they veryswiftly again to the back of the creature; and so from my sight,striking with the great stones, and the beast bellowing very loud andpiteous. And how many of the Humped Men there were to the beginning ofthat strange hunting, I know not; but surely there were few that livedto the end.
And surely there were such things as this thing in the beginning of theworld, and again was it thus in the end; and I did ponder this a littlewhile, as I did sit upon the great branch, and hearken unto the sound ofthe hunting, that was now gone a great way off, and was presently beyondmy hearing.And afterward, I gat me to the earth, and did look this way and thatway, to see that no beast was anigh, neither any of the Humped Men; andafterward, I eat two of the tablets and drank some of the water.And when I had gat this far to a readiness for my going, I minded methat I should try the compass again, as I did intend. And surely themachine did point between the North and the South, upon the Westwardarc, even as Naani had told unto me; yet, as it did seem, with somewhatmore of a Southward pointing than she had made me to think. And because
[RELIEF][EMOTION]of this telling of the compass, a great ease came upon my spirit; for,surely, was not this but a sure sign that I did go direct unto thathidden place of the world where the Lesser Refuge did abide; but yet wasnot come over-close, so that the pull of the Mighty Earth-Current of theGreat Redoubt was something stronger than in the place where was theLittle Pyramid.And all this did I think very swift to myself, and had a glad upliftingof the heart, as you do perceive; so that I went forward upon myjourney, with a great stride, and did scarce fear any strange thing thatall the Country did hold, in that moment.And I went all that day at a strong pace, and did be oft tempted to sendthe Master-Word unto Naani; yet did keep from so foolish an acting, thewhich, mayhaps, had brought straightway upon me an Evil Power, and hadgiven me to Destruction when that I was near come to the succour of theMaid. And it was this quick and constant fear of the Evil Forces of theNight Land, that did keep me ever from calling unto Naani, lest thatthey should discover me, and follow after; and this, I doubt not, you toknow by now so well as I.
Now, by the sixth hour, I was come into a part of the Country wherethere were an exceeding abundance of steam fountains and sprayings andgreat upboilings of water in basins of rock; and the air did be full ofthe sounds and the roarings of the boilings and the spoutings, and of ahot mist and spray; so that, truly, I had scarce the power to see to myfront, nor to any side.And here, presently, I made a pause, and did eat and drink, andafterward went forward again; and I did keep the shore of the sea alwaysto my right, and so did go proper to my way; yet with no great ease; forthe sea also did steam very strong in that part, and because of thisgreat fog of steam, I was surely much laboured to make a great speed,lest unseeing I go headlong into an hole of the boiling water.And in the ninth hour, I did go clear of the hot boilings, and was comeagain free of the mist and the steam, and might look with mine eyes tomy going. And, surely, as I did perceive, I was come to the end of thegreat sea that had been ever to my right; for it did go against the feetof great and monstrous mountains, that went upward for ever into thenight, and did seem as that they were the hither wall of that strangeCountry of Fire and Water. And so was I stood there very much taken upon
[CONFLICT][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE]doubt; for how should I go farther.And after that I had been there a while, in a bewilderment of doubt andof wit, I went to the left, along the feet of the mountains; and trulythis but of common sense; for how might I go any other way, save I goback again!And at the twelfth hour I eat two of the tablets, and drank some of thewater, and went forward once more. And lo! at the fifteenth hour, I was
come to a place between the mountains, even an upward gorge, very darkand gloomy, and without light for a great way.And, in verity, I did not want to go up the gorge, in that it was sodreary a place and narrow and horrid and drear-seeming, after the lightand wideness of the Country in which I did yet stand.And presently, I did go past the mouth of the gorge, that I should learnwhether there went another way out of that Country. And thiswise, for agreat hour more, along the feet of the mountains, and did presently cometo a monstrous black river, that was, maybe, a mile wide. And it to be
[PROBLEM][SURPRISE][DANGER][CONFLICT]very shallow, and seeming as that the water scarce to cover the mud ofthe bottom. And here and there a great steam did come from it, andspirtings and moundings-up of the mud in many places, and monstrousbabblings and puffings-up of strange smoke, as that a great heat wentbeneath it in this place and in that.And surely it went backward into the country for a mighty way, so far asmy sight did go; and I did think it to be no river, but truly a furthersea. And there was no way across; for there were no trees anigh, to makeme a raft, neither might I wade across; for it might be shallow here anddeep there, and the mud be in all places. And, moreover, I had been like
[GORE]to be caught in one of those upburstings of mud, even did I have a raftto go upon. And because of all these things, I gat me back again to theGorge, and presently I did go upward into the darkness.Now, I went upward very steady, save that I did stumble oft, and did gothrough six great hours. And truly it did seem that I went in an utterdark, because that I had been awhile in so constant a light.
[FLASHBACK][METAPHOR][TRANSITION][DANGER][HORROR]And, by that I had been six hours in the Gorge, I was gone right awayfrom the Country of the Seas, and did be as that I was back into someplace that was like to the dreadness of the Night Land. For there werein this place and in that place of the Gorge, red fire-holes, even as inthe Night Land. Yet not many until that I was come a great way up of theGorge. And there did be life of horrid things about the fires, as soon Idid wot; so that I made to keep off from them. Yet, as you shall
[EMOTION]perceive, I must come oft pretty near, because that the Gorge wasnowheres scarce an hundred good paces across, and did oft come verynarrow, so that I did come oft anigh to the fire-holes, whether that Idid heed to or not.And all that time, and ever, did the Gorge go very sharp upward, so thatit was a very weary thing to make great trial of speed, as you shallknow. But yet I went so fast as I could do; for I was grown sudden veryexcited about the heart, and to feel as that I did surely draw anigh tothat strange and hid place of the world, where was the Lesser Refuge.And when I had gone upward through six great hours, as I did say, I tookcaution for a place proper to slumber; for I was surely very wearied.
And I saw a place presently, afar upward of the dark side of the Gorge,upon the right, where a ledge of the Rock did show in the glaring fromone of the fire-holes that made a gloomy light in that place. And Iclimbed unto this ledge, and did find it to be secure, and awkward tocome upon. And presently, after that I had eat and drunk, I did composemyself unto sleep, the which came very speedy upon me, whilst yet I didbelieve I thought only upon the sweetness of the Maid. And truly it hadbeen something over three and twenty hours, since last I did sleep; sothat I was greatly awearied.
And in six hours I waked and did eat, and did climb downward again tothe Gorge, and so unto mine upward journey.Now, as you do perceive, when that I was come properly a great way upthe Gorge, and had come among the fire-holes, there was no more an utterdarkness, for the dull red glare of the pits beat upward upon the blacksides of the rock-mountains, that did make the sides of the Gorge; sothat oft I did see both sides very plain in the lower parts; yet of theheight of the Gorge, who might know aught; for the black sides did goupward for ever into the everlasting night.And because of the light from the fire-pits, I did see, time and oftabout the fires, horrid monsters, both that were snakes, and others liketo scorpions so great as my head; but no more than these for a longwhile. And afterward I perceived that surely other matters did moveamong the rocks of the Gorge; so that I did keep the Diskos very readyin mine hand; yet had truly no use for it all that day.
Now I eat and drank at the sixth and the twelfth hours, and went onwardat a very strong speed. And at the sixteenth hour, I did seem as that Iknew the aether to be stirred about me, and the beat of the Master-Wordvery faint upon mine inward ear. And immediately, a wondrous great andlovely thrilling did wake all my being; for surely, I said, this was thespirit of my love, calling unto me with her brain-elements. And, indeed,this was a very proper and sensible thinking; for had the Master-Wordbeen sent from the Mighty Pyramid, I had been like to hear it veryplain, by reason of the force of the Earth-Current which was with themand to their command. But, as you do know, the Earth-Current was nigh
[FLASHBACK][EMOTION][CONFLICT]gone from the Peoples of the Lesser Refuge; so that they were over-weakto make any proper calling. And this I have spoken of before this place.Yet, in a little while, as I did stand very hushed, that I should harkthe better, I was come to doubt whether that I did truly hear theMaster-Word. And one moment I did say that it had surely beat in thenight about me; and immediately would I be just so unsure; and so in awhile I gat once more to my journey, and had doubt in my heart; yet, asyou shall conceive, more of hope. And because of this thing, I went
[EMOTION]onward for thirty great hours from the time that I did wake; for myheart was excited within me. And when that I had gone so long forward asthis, I did see how that I did foolishly; and I lookt about for a placefor my slumber; and I found a small cave that was clean and empty, as Idid discover by the shining of the Diskos which I made to spin a littletime. And the cave was in the cliff of the mountain that made the rightside of the Gorge, and was nigh twenty good feet from the bottom of theGorge, and hard to approach.And when I was come secure into the cave, and sure that it was proper tomy purpose, I eat four of the tablets, as was just and nice to my belly,and did afterward drink some of the water, and so to my slumber; and allthe while, very sweet and strong in my thoughts upon Naani; so thatsurely I was a little time before that I had myself rightly unto sleep.
And I slept six hours, and did wake, for I had set my spirit hard untosuch wakening; yet was I still greatly yearning for sleep. But this didgo somewhat, when that I had fought a little with my need. Andafterward, I eat two of the tablets, and drank some of the water, anddid gat my gear upon me, and was presently down unto the Gorge; and soagain to my journey.Now in all that day I did go with a very stern speed; for it did seem asthat my soul did know for surety that I was truly come something nighunto that hid place in the night where I should find mine Olden Loveagain. And the sweet hope that was bred of the calling that had seemed
truly to sound about my spirit, was in all my being, and more sure onthat day, than before that I had slept.And I went thirty hours in all, even as before, ere that I did comeagain to sleep, and I eat and drank at every sixth hour, so that mystrength should abide within me. And by that I was come to the ending ofthe thirty hours, I was sorely awearied, and gat me upward of themonstrous cliff that did make the left side of the Gorge, havingperceived in a place a great ledge of the rock, that did seem veryproper for my purpose of slumber.And when I was come upward upon the ledge of the rock, I saw that theredid seem something, like to a mighty spider, that did stay half withoutof a hole in the back part of the ledge. And I smote the thing gently
[EMOTION]with the Diskos, so that it was very quickly dead; and afterward Isearched well about; but did gladly perceive that there abode there noother horrid creature.And I eat two of the tablets, and drank some of the water; and didafterward make me ready for slumber, as ever. But now I did put thecloak well about me; for truly there was grown a chill into the air ofthe Gorge; and here also will I tell how that it did seem unto me thatthe air was gone something from that great thickness and strength whichhad been with me in the past days of my journeying.Now I was gone so tired, that I fell upon sleep in a moment, yet with adear thought and anxious, concerning Naani; but was so starved of thebody for slumber, that even mine anxiousness kept me not awake. And I
[RELIEF][EMOTION][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][GORE]was then so fast with sleep that I knew naught for eight hours of verysound slumber. And then did I awake, and very thankful of the heart thatno evil beast or creeping thing had come upon me whilst that I was soutter lost in sleep.And now, truly, was I something fresh and ready; and I ate and drank,and had my gear once more upon me, and so down into the Gorge. Andafterward, I went upon my journey for eighteen hours, and did pause buta little while at the sixth and the twelfth hours that I should eat anddrink.
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT]And when the eighteenth hour was nigh come, I perceived that the natureof the Gorge was grown very horrid and dank. And in verity, I did feelas that afar upward in the night the black mountains that did make thesides of the Gorge had come together, and did make a monstrous roofunseen in the utter height.And this thing I do tell, only as of my belief; for I have no very sureproof. Yet, truly, my reason doth say likewise; for there did oft dripwater upon me out of the darkness, even though I walked in the middleway of the Gorge; and how should this thing be, save that there went anoverreaching of the sides, that should let the mildew down upon me.
[DANGER][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][GORE]And in this place, and for more than eleven great hours, there werefire-holes and fire-pits only in this part and in that, and each a greatway off from another. And they burned very dull, and did seem to throw afume of sulphur into all the air, as that there was no freedom above forthe stink to pass away. And in every place were the rocks of the Gorgevery thick and slippery with strange growths; so that it was a sorrow towalk upon them. And all that time was there an heavy wetness andslowness in the air; and a smell, beside the stink of the fire-pits, asthat I did go forward through a place where dead things did be.
[SURPRISE][HORROR]And for a great time there was a horrid darkness, as it had been thatthe air was grown thick with the fumings of the fire-pits, as I dobelieve; and beside this thing there was, as I have said, but a dullfire here and another there; so that it was like that there should be aheavy dark. And because that it was so utter black, and because thatthere were growths upon the rocks in the bottom of the Gorge, I did gobut slowly, and with pain of stumblings; and always with the stink ofthat place to trouble me half unto a sickness.And sudden, as I did go past one of the fire-pits, I saw that the firemade a dull shining upon some monstrous thing that did move before me,upon the far side of the fire. And I came in one moment unto a swiftsilence, and hid among the rocks of the bottom of the Gorge. And I lookt
[DANGER]very cautious at the thing that moved beyond the fire, and surely I hadseen no thing so monstrous since that I had come free of the Night Land;for it was as that some huge Creature, like to the hull of a great shipdid move down out of the dark of the upper way of the Gorge. And it wentby the fire-hole, and onward into the dark of the lower way of theGorge; and I had perceived somewhat of it, as it did go past the fire,and, surely, it was black and beslimed, and utter great in height and inlength, and it went always without noise, so that I had not known it tobe there, but that I saw it plain with mine eyes. And, truly, if I dosay that it was somewhat as that I had seen a monstrous slug-thing,surely I should use wise and proper words to make known to you thishorrid brute.And I stayed very quiet a time, and afterward I went upward again of theGorge, and did use a new caution to my way, and saw that the Diskos wasfree upon my hip; for even thus I did carry the weapon, being that Imust use both hands to my way, and to save me in my stumblings andslidings over the slippery rocks.
[MONSTER]And once it did seem to me that some great thing moved in the darkness,and I went downward among the rocks, and stirred not my body for a greatwhile; and sure am I that there went some living monster past me, thatdid stink as a loathsome grave. And afterward, I went on again.And three hours did I go thus, and came at last to a place where afire-hole did shine more ruddy; and I did look well about me, that Ishould perceive that part of the Gorge the better. And as I stood there,very quiet, away off from the fire, so that it did show no great lightupon my person, I did note how utter still was that place; and this totake me anew, as though it had come fresh upon me. And here, there would
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][MONSTER]be the drip of water, and again in that place, and again elsewhere; andall very solemn and very dismal. And the silence to be constant.And presently, as I lookt, now to this way and again to that, I saw thatthere was a monstrous slug-thing laid upward against the black side ofthe Gorge, as that it had stood up on end; and the one end of themonster went upward beyond the light from the fire-pit; but the otherpart did come down and trail into the Gorge, as a long hillock, veryugly and black and beslimed.And I near sweat with a disgust and horror of the thing; but afterward Ihad more courage, and spied well upon the brute. And surely, it moved
[SURPRISE][HORROR]not at all, any more than the side of the cliff of the Gorge; and Iconceived that it stood not upward upon any feet; but clung to the rock,even as you shall see a slug to go. And for a great space I was veryquiet and moved not, neither did I make to hide, but stood there verystupid.Yet, in a time, I had more of courage which brought strength unto myheart, and I began again to go upon my way, but with an utter caution,and I then to creep for a weary time upon my hands and knees among thedank and weariful rocks and boulders that lay in the bottom of theGorge. And thrice between four hours was I passed by hidden andmonstrous things in the horrid dark places of the Gorge; yet with nonoise, save, as it might be, the odd rattle of a rock in this place andthat; but with an utter and dreadful stinking. And I to be quiet as
[DANGER]they went, as you shall think.And each time now that I did go by the fire-pits and fire-holes that layodd-ways in the Gorge, I did pause and search about me with mine eyes,very cautious, and oft now did I perceive how that the monstrous slugcreatures did lie in this place and in that against the cliffs of theGorge. And I did go then utter still, from this space to that spaceamong the rocks, and oft upon the flat of my belly, and with a constantheed that I make not mine armour to knock against the boulders.And always as I did go, there was a monstrous stench, and the choking ofsulphurous smoke very oft. And here and there, as mine heart doth
believe, there were utter great caverns within the mountains to theright and to the left; and of this thing I have some small proof; foronce I did go by a place where a fire did burn, as it should be afire-hole, afar inward of the mountain side upon my right; so that I sawin a moment that I looked in the darkness through the mouth of a mightycave-place; and I went past very quick and silent, for I knew notwhether any horrid thing should come forth out of that place to slay me.And, truly, as I did think, if there did be one such place, there werelike to be many; and mayhaps the slugs came forth from those caverns,where, as I did conceive there was naught save an eternal dripping ofwaters and the foul growth of things in all parts. Yet is this last buta thought, as I do say, and you shall wisely take it for no more thanthat.Now, I came clear of the darkness and the slime and the stinking inabout twelve hours after the time that I did think the mountains to be aroof unto the Gorge; and the air was now free and did seem as that somelife and health did abound in it; and the fires did be more plentiful,and burned very bright and clean, and threw all their fumings upward, sothat there was no more any bitter pain of sulphur within my throat.
[EMOTION]And surely, it was with a thankful heart that I went onward, and with agood speed; for there was much of light all about me, in that thereburned an hundred fire-pits here and in that place; so that I saw clearbefore me and behind, and conceived that the slugs did abide only in theclosed part of the Gorge. And oft I did take the air very full into mylungs, for the sweetness of it, after the horrid stenchings that I hadabode all those hours.And presently, when I was come free of the roofed part of the Gorge,maybe some three good hours, I lookt for a place proper to slumber; forit was surely something over three and thirty hours since that I didlast come upon sleep; and I was utter worn and lost of strength with somuch of creeping and harking for monsters, as you shall believe;moreover, about that time I had gone bitter long whiles betweenslumberings through more than an hundred hours, as you shall haveperceived from my tellings.Now, presently, I saw a small cave that went inward of the side of theGorge. And I lookt into the cave, and found it to be sweet and clean,
and very dry. And there was a small fire-pit off from the mouth of thecave that did throw a good light for my purpose; so that I saw there wasno creeping thing or horror in the place; and I went in, and made toprepare for my slumber.But truly, when I was come to look upon myself, I was utter soiled anddid seem as that I stank with the slime and disgust of the dark part ofthe Gorge, where I had gone upon my hands, and upon my belly. Andbecause of this, I was set that I should not eat or come to sleep,without I washed me.And I went out from the cave, and there was a spring near to thefire-pit, as was oft in that part of the Gorge. And the spring was hot
[EMOTION][RELIEF][GORE]and did fill a hollow of the rock, very quiet and with a fuming ofsulphur, as I did bend above it. And I washed mine hands and face andmine armour and gear, in the hot spring, and did dry me with mypocket-cloth; and so was sweetened and put to happiness of mind.And I went back into the cave, and did sit in the mouth of the cave,with the Diskos to mine hand; and I eat four of the tablets, for I wasgone a mortal long while without, and afterward I drank some of thewater. And as I did eat and drink, I lookt out upon the lightness of theGorge before me, and with a cheerful and composed heart.
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][DANGER][EMOTION][METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE][HORROR]And I saw presently that there came certain creatures out from theirholes, even as it might be that they were part rats; but very strangelooking, and not properly such. And some did lie about the fire-hole,and some did hunt about in the rocks; and one came presently, and had asnake by the neck. And it stood upon the snake, and did eat it, evenwhile that the snake did lash about upon the rock. And the snake didlash until that it was nigh all eat; and a very strange thing this wasto see, and something troublesome to the pity. Yet was I glad to
[METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][CHARACTERIZATION][CONTEXT][PROBLEM]perceive that there were enemies to the serpents of that place.And when the rat creature did make an end of the snake, it made acrossto the spring, and did drink the hot water a while; and afterward backunto the fire, and there laid down anigh to the edge, and seeming verysweetly comforted of the belly, which, in truth, was much otherwise withme. And, after that, I saw many creatures that went about the fire, anddid have warmth from the fire and drink from the spring; and surely Idid ponder that the Peoples of this our Age should say, if they hadstood with me, that Providence had made nigh together the warmth and thedrink that were needful unto life (for it was grown to a bitter chillnow in the Gorge). But rather did this thing seem to me otherwise, thatthese creatures did be but of their circumstance, and if that it hadbeen another way, then had they grown of their wits to meet it to theirmeans of life. Yet, as some would say, the arguments do but meet, and be
[TRANSITION][ACTION][EXPOSITION][CHARACTERIZATION][PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR][FLASHBACK][CONTEXT]the same thing. And neither way do I care in this place; but do no morethan to show unto you the working of my brain, in this way and that, asI made my journey.Now, presently, when I was done eating, and come very ready to fall uponsleep, I went out from the cave and gat me certain boulders, the which Idid carry into the cave. And when I was come back for the last time, Iput them very secure in the entrance-way, that no small stingingcreature come at me as I slept. And after that, I made ready, and went
to my sleep, having sweet thoughts and slumbrous, of the Maid.Now I slept very quiet that time, and was not over troubled with thechill of the Gorge, which was but little in that place, both by reasonof the fire-pit and because that the cave did help to keep my warmth tome. And I had a deep slumber for eight hours, and waked then prettytired, but strong to go upon my way. And after that I had sat a littlewhile, I came full to wakefulness and afterward did eat two of thetablets and drink some of the water, the which I did, sitting in themouth-part of the cave, after that I had cast free the boulders.
And afterward, I gat my gear upon me, and I went again upon my journey.And the Gorge did continue very light and cheerful, with the shining ofthe fires; and oft there did be a little steam that did hiss from thispart or that of the bottom of the Gorge and did blow very quaint andnoisy in the quiet of that place. And oft there did be hot pools, andeverywhere the great boulders in the bottom way, and to the right and tothe left the black and mighty sides of the Gorge that did go upward forever into the everlasting night.And so I did go, and had eat and drunk at the sixth hour, and goneonward again. And, lo! at the eighth hour, I did thrill sudden with a
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][ACTION][PERSPECTIVE]wondrous great thrilling; for, in verity, it did seem to me that theMaster-Word did beat softly about me, out of all the night of the world.And all my heart did throb with great glowings of joy; yet was the beatof the Word unsure, so that I knew not truly whether my spirit hadindeed heard aught, for there was immediately a silence, as ever, aboutmine inward being. Yet, as you shall believe, there was a new hope andstrength of courage in all my body and soul.And I went forward very swift, and all renewed, as it were; and mystrength and hope did make naught of any terror that should lie to barmy way, neither did I have further heed of the boulders that lay alwaysupon my path, but did go over them with quick leapings, and a wondrousand thrilling eagerness of the heart within me.
[EMOTION]And, sudden, in the end of the tenth hour, I perceived that the mightywalls of blackness that made the sides of the Gorge did be no morethere, and that I was come truly upon the end of the Gorge. And I neartrembled with hope and astonishment; for when I was gone a little wayon, I had ceased to go upward any more, and was come clear out from themouth of the Gorge, and did peer forth across a mighty country of night.And it did seem to me as that I was come to a second Land of Strangematters, even as the Night Land where did lie the wonder of the MightyPyramid. And surely, I did think within my heart that I was come at lastto that far and hidden place of the world where did be the LesserRedoubt. But yet was there no place in all that night where did tower
the shining lights of the Lesser Pyramid, the which I did hope vainly toperceive. And because that I saw them not, a great heaviness came uponmy spirits for a time; but afterward the heaviness did go; for I putReason to help my courage, and did plan this cause and that to show whythat I was not come to sight of the shining embrasures of the LesserRedoubt. But yet was there left an ache of doubting, as you shall wellconceive.Now this Land was very new and strange, and had a great light in thispart, and a wondrous grim darkness in that. And I did pause a great
while to determine how that I should go properly. And presently Ibethought me of the compass, and did draw it forth, and set it upon theearth, that I should see how it did act. And truly it did go almost asNaani had told to me; so that I was very sure in all my being that I wasin verity come anigh to the hidden Refuge. But yet did the compass giveme no proper guiding to my way; so that I was no more wise to this endthan before, only that I had the comfort of that which it did seem toassure.
And, in a little while, I went forward into the Land, and did hope thatI should come presently to some matter to help my choice. And I wentfirst toward a certain great glowing of fire that lay before me, and didseem joined to another great glare that went afar to my left.And I found the ground of that Land to be very fair for my feet, and tohave in this place and that certain bushes, even as it did seem to me,of the kind that we named moss-bushes in the Night Land, as you do know.And I made a very good speed, and went thus until I had gone for maybesix long hours. And by that time, I was come anigh to the glowing of
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][DANGER]light; and did keep now a strong caution to my going; for truly, as Idid know from the tellings of the Maid, there were very horrid anddreadful Powers in that Land, and I did well to remember that I was comeagain to parts where might be the destruction of the spirit. Now I madea pause, and lookt toward the glowing light; and it seemed to me thatfor a monstrous way unto the right and unto the left, there did besurely a great, hid valley in the earth before me. For the shining didseem as that it came up from out of a valley, as that there burned adeep light in such a place; but yet was I all unsure, and had no properknowing whether indeed there did be any valley there, but only a strangeand luminous shining that did come upward from the earth.And I made no great haste now to go unto that place; but went downsudden into the bushes, and lay upon my belly, and had a new great fearupon my spirit. And presently, I parted the bushes a little, and made a
[SURPRISE][DANGER][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][MONSTER]place for spying.And I looked a great time unto the place of the light, and now to thispart and now to that. And sudden, I saw, as it did seem, a monstroushead within the glowing; for the glowing did seem at whiles as that itswept to and fore, as should a shining smoke that went obedient to aquiet wind: and so to hide and again to uncover. And in a moment I lostthe great face, and was all unsure that ever I had seen aught.
[SURPRISE]And lo! in a little minute, I did see it again; but whether it did bethe shape of some utter monster of eternity--even as the Watchers aboutthe Mighty Pyramid--or whether it did be no more than a carven mountainof rock, shaped unto the dire picturing of a Monster, I did have noknowing. But I made that I should get hence very quick, and I did turnme about in the bushes, and went upon my hands and knees; and so came atlast a great way off.Now, presently, I came again upon my feet, and did take a new lookaround that Land. And I had the mouth of the Gorge to my back, and this
[CONFLICT]I perceived by the shining of the fire-pits that made the place shown tome.And to the left of the Gorge was an utter blackness, as I did conceiveof black and monstrous mountains, through which the Gorge did come. Andto the right side of the Gorge there were many low volcanoes, that wentalways along the feet of the great mountains that made the right wall ofthe Gorge. And I saw the feet of these dark mountains, because that thelight from the little volcanoes made a glare upon the lower slopes.
And so shall you have some knowing of that part of this second Land ofNight.And a good way off, was the shining that I had journeyed unto, and theshining went into a distant light through a part of the Land that layafar to my left, for it stretched a great and strange way toward me, outof the leftward gloom, and came unto my front, and so away into an utterdistance. Yet, though it was so great, you shall not think that it madeany huge light in the Land; but was rather as that it had a shining madeunto other ends; for it made not a great lightness in the Land.And you do now perceive something roughly how the Land did seem to myback part and unto my left, and somewhat before my face. And because
[PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE]that I did think to have no profit to my search, if that I went to theleft, I made attention unto the Right. And here there was much ofdarkness; yet oft the shining of fire-holes in this place and that amidthe darkness. And, as I did look, it grew very plain upon me how greatwas the spread and drear wideness of that Country of Night; and howthat I did be an utter lonesome person in all that dark. And so shallyou be with me in sympathy of the utter greatness of my task, and knowof the fear that did breed, odd whiles, that I should search until Idie, and never find. And you to give me good human understanding.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]Now I made no more to delay, but went unto the right, and did keep thechain of the little volcanoes something level to my course; though agreat way off. And I went thus with a strange growing of hope, and anexcitement, for ten hours, and had eat not then for more than twentyhours, and surely not since the sixth hour of that day and this becausethat I was so utter shaken from my calmness of going.And at the tenth hour, I went utter weak, and did seem surely as that Imust swoon. And lo! I bethought me how that I was gone so long without
[EMOTION]aught for my belly. And surely, when I was quiet a time, I eat four ofthe tablets, and in a good while did feel all renewed, and would rest nomore, after that I had drunk some of the water, but went onward; for, inverity, my spirit did be as that it had slain me, if that I had laindown at that time. And this because hope was so fierce in me; for I tofeel indeed that I was come near to the Maid.And I went ten hours more, until that I did truly totter upon my feet,with utter and dreadful weariness; for I had gone now through somewaysof forty great hours, and had been foolish in mine eating and drinking,as you have perceived; but yet was this to be forgiven; for I was asthat I should come any little minute upon the wonder of the LesserPyramid, shining afar in the night. Yet, truly, there was nowhere
[EMOTION]anything that might be likened unto it.And I lay down there, just as I did be, and with no proper heed to mysafety. And I was gone asleep in one moment, as it did seem; and wakednot for twelve hours; and then did come suddenly unto knowledge; andthankful was I in the heart that no monster had come upon me in thatdead-time of slumbering. And I eat four of the tablets, as was surelydue unto me, and drank some of the water, and so gat forward again intothe night.
And truly I was mortal stiff and did ache for a great while, and thisdid be in part because that I had wrapped not the cloak about me, ere Islept; for the Land was bitter cold and did make the blood very chill.Now when I had gone onward through six hours, I ate and drank; for I didmind now to be wise and keep my strength good within me. And I wentonward again at a very great speed, and full of an excitement. Andsurely, I did be glad at last that the tablets were so easy gone in themouth, and unfilling to the belly; for I had been without power andpatience to eat proper victual.
And at the tenth hour, I saw that there rose a red-shining out of theLand before me, as that it came upward from a mighty pit. And I madeslow my way, and so, when I was gone on for two great hours more, I sawthat monstrous figures went about, against the red glare of the shining.And I gat me down into the bushes which were very plentiful in thatpart.And I stayed there for a certain while, and made a watch upon thered-shining and the figures; and, truly, it did seem to me that therewere horrid giants in that Land, even as in the Night Land. And
[TRANSITION]afterward, I crept away, and went outward from the little volcanoes,into that part of the Land that was dark, save, as you do mind, for theglare of fire-holes in this part and that.And I went now with an utter care; for the giants had put a new cautioninto my heart, and I did surely mean that I should live to rescue mineown Maid, and have joy through all my life. And thereafter, I went withthe Diskos in my hand, and at each hour that was the sixth, I eat two ofthe tablets, and drank some of the water, and so did keep my strengthvery good within me.Now, presently, I was come to a place where the Land did go downward agreat slope, and there was a difference in the earth that went beneathmy feet, and no great plenty of the bushes; but only one in this placeand one in that, and nowhere any fire-hole.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][RELIEF][TRANSITION]And I gat me down and did feel the earth with my hands, and lo! I didfind presently smooth stones, and afterward olden shells. Andimmediately, a great delight took me; for Naani had told how that theLesser Pyramid stood something nigh to the shore of an ancient sea, thatwas long dried up in the years of eternity. And surely it might be thatI was come down into the dry bottom of that same olden sea, and shouldpresently have sight of the Little Pyramid.
[PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][ACTION]And because that hope was put so fresh into me, I went forward through,maybe, thirty hours, across the olden sea-bed; but in all that time Ihad no sight of the lights of the Lesser Redoubt. And a great troublebegan to take me; for, indeed, Naani had not told me how great was thesea; and it might be that I should wander a weariful age across it,before that I come to the far side.And it did come to me, presently, how that I should be wise to see thatmy way was very straight, so that I waste not my strength in uselesswanderings. And I had a great care now to observe that the red-shiningdid be always upon my right, to my rear; and by this reasonable cunningdid I make to steer very nicely through the great gloom of that place.
[MONSTER]Now, as I did go across the bed of the great sea, I heard strangesounds, now in this part of the darkness, and now in that; and oft didthere be a noise, as if things did run this way and that way in the bedof the sea. And once, afar off in the night, there did be a strange andhorrid screaming; so that I did know truly that the monsters of thatLand were out, and did go about in the dark.And, as you shall perceive and understand, I was all unknowing of thelore of that Land; so that I knew not what to think of this strangesound or that, neither knew I what they might portend, but only that, asI did say, there were Monsters abroad. And I could do no more than havemy way forward with an utter care always, and be very ready with theDiskos, or to hide, each as maybe according to the need.
[HORROR]And, surely, I went one-and-forty hours that day, and eat and drankafter every sixth hour. And before this, in the seven-and-thirtiethhour, I heard a great roaring and bellowing in the night, coming nighunto me; and afterward the thudding of monstrous feet, as that a giantran past me in the darkness, and did make a chase of some creature. Andthe thudding of the feet and the roaring went far off into the night;and there did seem presently to come back to me from a great way, alittle screaming; but of this thing I had no surety; and I abode veryhushed in a clump of bush, until quietness was come again all about; forthere had been an utter frightening sound in the horrid voice and in thethudding of the great feet.Now, in the one-and-fortieth hour of that day, I came upon the farthershore of the olden sea. But lo! there was nowhere any light to tell me
[EMOTION]aught of the Lesser Refuge. And truly, a great doubt and bewildermenttook me; for, indeed, I could not perceive how it might be that I sawnot the lights of the embrasures of the Lesser Pyramid. And a greatdespair took me; so that I sat down there upon the shore of the oldensea, and had no heed of anything for a while.But afterward, I ate and drunk, and went into a clump of bush, and wraptthe cloak about me, and so went fast unto sleep, with the Diskos handyto my breast. And, in verity, the pain of the despair and the
bewilderment of mine heart did make rather for sleep, than to keep mewakeful; for, indeed, I was half stunned of the brain and of my courage;and did seem now the farther off from the ending of my search than everI had been.And I slept six hours, and waked then, sudden. And I leaned up upon mineelbow in the bush, and harked very quiet, perchance some noise hadshaken my sleep from me. But, indeed, there was nothing, only that I waswakeful, and did mind me of my trouble of failure. Yet now, I did invent
this thing and that thing to make natural account that I was not come tothe Lesser Redoubt; and so had hope again within me; yet much also ofdoubt and bewilderment.And I eat two of the tablets, and drank some of the water, and again tomy journey. And I made that I should keep along the shore of the sea,the which I did through twelve hours, and was then still so much indoubt as ever.And I ceased from my journeying, and lookt about me over the Land, andlo! I did note how that a weak and strange shining was in the air of the
Land, at a great way; as it had been that a far spreaded and faintglowing made a little glare into all the night unto my left and beforeme.Now I ate and drank, and made to steady my spirit; for I did fear lest Ishould feel utter lost in all the night of the world, and to know notwhere to make any more my search, and so to grow desperate in despair.And this thing you will understand.And afterward, I did make across that Land, unto the place where it didseem that the dull shining was something bright. And I went thus through
[DANGER][EMOTION][CONFLICT]eighteen hours, and did make pause at each sixth hour, and ate and drankvery resolute; though, in verity, it did seem as that even so small amatter as the tablets did be like to choke me. And by this is it plainto me how great an anguish was come upon my spirit, lest that I was allastray, and should have no joy to succour mine Own.And thrice in the time that I did go, there did be a running of feetamid the darkness; and odd whiles strange and horrid cryings in thenight; so that I put a force upon my despair, and hid me; for, indeed, Ihad no right to lose care of my life, if there did be any chance yetthat I find the Maid.And lo! in the eighteenth hour, which was truly the thirtieth of that
day, I found the shining in the night to be grown very plain, and anutter stinking of sulphur; and truly I did be aware that the Land wentupward.And I made upward through seven hours, and the light did grow moreplain, and was of a dull redness, very sombre and heavy. And in the endof six more hours, I ceased to go upward, and did know of a strange lowsound, that did be like to no other sound that ever I did hear; and waslike to a dull roar that did never have ceased through eternity.And I went forward unto the light, and the Land to be now as that I wentover an upland plain. And I did go thus through five hours, and the low
roar did grow ever upon mine ears. And truly! even as I did shape mythoughts to take a caution for my body, I went upward again a little,and came out upon the edge of a mighty cliff, and the low and constantroar did moan upward against me with an everlasting muttering. And Ilookt downward a monstrous way, and surely there was spread out a mightysea, as it did seem, of dull fire, as that a red-hot mud did lap verydeep and quiet below me in all that night.
[MONSTER]And I lookt outward across the strange sea, and the far side was hidfrom me; for, surely, there were dull and solemn clouds that came offthe sea, and hid the distance from me. And the clouds to glow a littleredly; and so to rise, and presently to blacken into the night. And Ilookt to the right and to the left, and it was plain that the blackcliffs did stretch out both ways, and did go downward ever into thatmonstrous sea of slow fire. And there were great headlands that went outinto the fire, as into a sea; and the fire did lap very quiet aboutthese, and where the fire lapt about them, there did shine and spirt outgreen flames and vapours at diverse times.
And, indeed, as I did perceive, I was come to an upward sea of fire, asit were the deep inwards of a low and utter monstrous volcano, that wasflat of the top and utter big across. And, in verity, I did lookdownward into the fires of the inward earth, and a very wondrous sightwas it, to stand there alone upon the cliffs of that everlasting sea.And a great heat came upward from the dull and grim fire of that gloomysea, and a reek of sulphur; so that I was like to be choked, and did gobackward from the edge of the cliff.And surely, I was come to the end of that Dark Land upon that side, andhad nowhere perceived the Lesser Pyramid in all the night of my travel.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK]And a new despair came upon me; for, indeed, it seemed I was come allastray in the night of the World, and did nowise have any knowingwhether I stood near to the Country of the Lesser Redoubt, or whetherthat I was gone half across the World unto a strange place.And, then, as the despair troubled my spirit and dulled the beating ofmy heart, a sudden thought did light up a fresh hope within me; for,indeed, as you do know, I was come upward of a great height, and didsurely have a huge view over all that Land; and mayhaps the LesserPyramid did lie somewhere in a valley, if, in verity, it did beanywheres at all in that Country. And I turned me from the cliffs, andlookt backward over all the night of the Land; but there was nowhere inall that Country the shining of the Lights of the Lesser Pyramid.And lo! of a sudden I did know that there was something in the night.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE]And I stared, with a very keen and anxious look. And behold, there wasthe black shape of a great pyramid afar off in the night, that did showagainst the shining of the distant light; for it did stand between meand the far-off fires. But until I was come to that place, whence I didlook, I had not stood to have it plain against the shining upon theother side of that Land.And how I did feel in that moment, I have no words to set out unto you.
But surely was my heart gracious with thankfulness, and I ready to leapwith joy and hope, and all my body thrilled with an excitement thatwould not have me to be silent; so that, suddenly, I began to shoutfoolishly across the night. But I came soon to wisdom and silence, asyou shall think.XTHE MAID OF THE OLDEN DAYSNow, as you shall perceive, all mine utter despair was turned in amoment into an huge gladness and a great hope; so that it did seem to methat I should be with my dear One in but a little while. Yet was this anover-hope and expectation, and was not like to have a swift satisfying;for, truly, I was made aware of naught, save that I did perceive theshape of a great pyramid, going upward into the night.
[DANGER][PROBLEM][ACTION][SURPRISE][TRANSITION]And I knew that the Pyramid did surely stand upon an hill in the midstof that dark Country, for only so might it show so great and high. And Iset me to run swift downward into the Land, so that I should make astrong going unto the Pyramid.And I ran for a few little minutes, and lo! I fell headlong, and didtruly feel as that I had brake my neck with the hardness and pain of myfall. And I had no power to go forward any more for a great while; but
[EMOTION]did just be there where I did fall, and very helpless and moaning alittle; so that any creature had been able to slay me, if that it hadcome upon me in that time.Yet, presently, I was able to sit upon the earth, and did hold my neckwith my hands, and afterward the pain went away; so that I gat once moreto my feet. But now I went forward very wisely, and had, moreover, ananxiousness in my heart; for, indeed, how did it be that the Pyramid wasso utter dark, if that it did be the Lesser Refuge, in truth. Andimmediately there did rise in me a fear that it should be some House ofEvil in the dark of that Land, or some wicked Force working a Pretenceand a bewilderment upon my sight. Yet, truly, the thing was plain now
[SURPRISE][FLASHBACK][DANGER]against the far-off fires of the Land; and I did have little thought butthat it should be, in verity, the Lesser Refuge.Now in the first moment that I did perceive the dark Pyramid, I had beenwithout wit, save to run very quick and blind unto the place; for you toremember how long I had made so great a search. And afterward, I hadbeen minded to call unto Naani with my brain-elements, sending theMaster-Word, and my speech after to tell how that I was come unto her.But now I did heed to have caution, and to discover what this darknessshould truly mean.
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][ACTION][PERSPECTIVE]And so did I go downward again into the night of that Land, at the firstwith a carefulness; but presently with a fierce eagerness and expectingof the heart, the which had been dulled a little time with the horridshaking and pain of my fall.Now I had climbed unto the upper plain of the great volcano in, maybe,thirteen hours; but I went downward of that great Hill in ten, and hadmade a greater speed, but that I was sore shaken and unsure, by reasonof my fall.And in the end of the tenth hour, I perceived that I was come again tothe great Plain of the Land; and I had no more any proper sight of theRefuge, because that it was upward afar in the darkness of the night.Yet was I abled now to see that there went a bulk between me and the farshinings, and did know that this great thing was surely the hill onwhich the Pyramid did stand.
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM][DANGER][HORROR]And I went four hours across the Land, and did pass in this place andthat, fire-holes that made a little red-shining in the night; andbecause of the fires in those far parts and a-near, there was not anutter dark.And when I was gone four hours towards the Pyramid, I could no more seethe distant shinings, for the bulk of the hill-bottom stood up between,and made all a blackness that way. And by this thing, I did guess that Iwas come nigh unto the hill; but yet was a great hour more before that Icame to it. And in that five hours, since I was come down from the greatVolcano, there had past me thrice and again, the sounds of thingsrunning in the night, and once there did be a sound as of a giantroaring afar, and a strange and horrid screaming.
Now I began to go up the hill. And, at the first, an utter excitementtook me in the heart; so that I could have shouted the name of the Maidaloud in the night, with vain hopings that she should hear me and makean answer. But this state went from me very swift, as I did go upward,and there came a caution again about me, and a coldness of fear, as thatmy spirit did wot of something that my heart did not perceive.And, presently, I was come upward almost to the top of the hill, thewhich took me nigh three hours. And surely, when I was come that I could
[DANGER][EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][TRANSITION]see the grimness of the Pyramid, going upward very desolate and silentinto the night, lo! an utter shaking fear did take me; for the sweetcunning of my spirit did know that there abode no human in all thatgreat and dark bulk; but that there did await me there, monstrous andhorrid things that should bring destruction upon my soul. And I wentdownward of the hill, very quiet in the darkness; and so in the end,away from that place.And I was four great hours before that I was come clear away from thehill, and I did feel that there was not any safety for my spirit in allthat Land. And surely I went a little blindly, in the first, and did go
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]with no heed unto my way.And presently, I was upon the shore of the olden sea, and had no knowinghow that I was come there; for, surely, I did think it to be a great wayoff. But now I do think that the dry bed of the sea did curve aroundunto that place, or that there did be two, or more, olden seas in thatCountry of Night.Now, presently, I sat me down, very weak and bewildered; for it was asthat my heart did lie dead within me. And, in verity, you shall perceive
[EMOTION][CONFLICT]how this thing was, for I did know by the tellings of my spirit thatthere abode evil things in the dark Pyramid upon the hill; and I doubtednot but that destruction had come upon the Peoples of the LesserPyramid, and that evil creatures and Powers did now abide in that place.And if this thing did be truly so, I was come over-late to the saving ofthe Maid; and with this thought I was very glad that some evil thingshould come that I should fight with it and die quickly; for there wasnaught then in all the world to make me glad to have life.And so shall you know the utter desolation that was in my heart; and,truly, I can perceive both the wiseness and the unwisdom of myreasonings; for, indeed, I did have no _sure_ knowing that the darkPyramid did be truly the Lesser Refuge. But yet, in verity, my spiritdid know with a certain sureness, and there was no doubt concerning thisthing, in all my being.
And, after that I had sat there awhile, I did mind me suddenly that Ishould send the Master-Word through the night; for, indeed, how elsemight I ever know whether Naani did yet live; though, in truth, I hadlittle, save desperate hope in this matter; but yet did remember howthat I had seemed odd times of my journey to hear the beat of theMaster-Word with my spirit, out of all the dark of the world. And, inverity, if Naani answered not to the Word, but there came instead anEvil Power to destroy me, I should but cease me of mine utterheart-ache.And I stood me upon my feet, and looked outward about me into theblackness of that Land. And I sent the Master-Word with mybrain-elements; and immediately I called Naani, thrice, sending the callwith my brain-elements.
[SURPRISE]And lo! in a moment, as it did seem, there broke around me out of allthe mystery of night, low and solemn, the Master-Word, beating in thenight. And immediately there did sound within my brain a far, smallvoice, very lone and faint, as that it had come from the end of theworld. And the voice was the voice of Naani and the voice of Mirdath,and did call me by mine olden love-name.
[EMOTION][DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]Then, indeed, I did near to choke with the utter affright of joy thatdid take me in the heart, and also I was shaken with a mightyexcitement, and my despair was gone, as that I had never known it. For,in verity, Naani did live and did call unto me with her brain-elements;and surely I had not heard the voice of mine Own for an utter age ofgrim labour and dread.And the voice was, as I did say, as that it came from one that did be ina far place of the earth. And, in verity, whilst I stood dazed with agreat joy that the Maid did live, I knew within me, concerning the fearthat she was utter far off; and what peril might come anigh to her,before that I should stand to her side, to do battle for her life andwell-being and mine own joy.
[EMOTION][FLASHBACK][METAPHOR]And lo! in the same moment, and before that I made further speech untoNaani, I did wot that someone did be a little way off from me, in thebushes, where a fire-hole did burn anigh to me; and it was as that myspirit knew this thing, and told of it unto my brain. And I made noanswer unto the Maid, across all the dark of the world; but went veryswift into a great bush that was nigh to the fire-hole, upon this side.And I lookt through, into the open space that did be about thefire-hole. And there was a little figure that did kneel, sobbing, upon
[PROBLEM][EMOTION][CONTEXT][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]the earth, beside the fire-hole; and truly it was a slim maid, and shedid seem as that she harked very desperate, even whilst yet she did sob.And surely, mine own soul did _Know_, all in one white moment of life.And she there, unknowing, and harking unto a cry of the spirit, that shedid think to come through all the desolation of the night--even from theMighty Pyramid. For oft, as I did perceive, had she cried unto me in allthat lonesome month, and known no answer; neither that I was making adesperate way unto her; for, indeed, her weakness was great, so that shehad no power to throw the Word strongly afar, neither to make plain herspiritual cryings through any mighty space of the aether.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][DANGER][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE]And lo! I drew in my breath, and set my teeth a moment, to steady mylips; and I said: [DIALOGUE]"MIRDATH," out of the bush where I did be, and usingnatural human speech. And the Maid ceased from her weeping, and looktthis way and that, with an utter new fear, and with a frightened hopethat did shine with her tears in the light from the fire-hole. And Idivided the bush before me, and went through the bush, so that I cameout before her, and did be there in my grey armour; and I did pausethen, and was all adrift in myself; for my heart said that I should takethis Maid into mine arms again; for that I was come again to be withMirdath after an utter lost Eternity. But yet was I all paused; for
[EMOTION]truly she was Naani and she was Mirdath, and she did be a stranger inmine eyes, and very dainty and pretty and shaken with woe and soretrouble and grief.And in that same moment of my coming unto her out of the bush, shescreamed and fell back from me, and strove weakly to gain unto thehither bushes; for, truly, she knew not what was come upon her in thatfirst little moment. And immediately she saw that it did be an humanman, and no monster to slay her, and in that instant I said theMaster-Word unto her, aloud, that she should have knowledge of peace andhelp. And I told my name, and said I am That One. And she knew this
thing, even as my lips made the sounds. And she cried out something inan utter broke voice, and ran unto me, and thrust her two small handsinto my charge and keeping, and fell thence into a great sobbing andshaking, so that I was all in trouble to ease her; but did keep asilence and held fast her hands, for I had not on mine armoured gloves.And she leaned against me, very weak, and seeming wondrous like to achild. And lo! in a while she ceased to sob, and did but catch her
[SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][METAPHOR][PROBLEM]breath this time and that, but said no word. And I bethought me that shedid suffer of hunger, for I perceived that she had been long wanderingand alone, and was come unto the end of hope, when that I did come.And the Maid stood there yet silent, for she might not yet command hermouth to speak. And she trembled as she stood. And I opened my left
[ACTION][CONFLICT][DANGER][EMOTION]hand, and lookt at the hand within my palm, and surely it was utter thinand wasted. And I made no more pause, but lifted mine Own and set hereasy upon the earth, with an hump of smooth rock unto her back. And Istript off my cloak very quick, and put it about her, for she was scarcecovered with her clothes that had been all torn among the bushes; sothat part she shook with an utter chill, and part because of weakness,for she was nigh to be starved unto her death, and destroyed with hergrief and lonesomeness.And I took from my back the scrip and the pouch, and I gat a tablet fromthe scrip, and brake it into my cup, and with the water I made a littlebroth very swift upon an hot rock that was to the edge of the fire-hole.
And I fed the broth unto the Maid, for truly her hands did shake so thatshe had spilt it all, if that I had done otherwise.And she drank the broth, and was so weak that presently she did fallagain to sobbing, yet very quiet; so that I strove not to be troubled inthe heart; for, indeed, this thing was but reasonable, and not cause forme to have an anxiousness. But I put my hands under the cloak and tookher hands into mine and held them strong and firm; and this did seem tobring something of peace and strength unto her; so that presently thetrembling and the weeping went from her. And, indeed, the broth wassurely helpful in this matter.
And presently, I knew that her hands did stir a little within mine, andI loosed somewhat of my grip; and immediately, she graspt my hands witha weak and gentle grasp; but lookt not yet at me; only did stay veryquiet, as that she did gather her strength within her. And, indeed, Iwas content; save that an anxiousness of the heart did stir me thistime and that, lest some monster should come upon us. And because ofthis trouble, I did hark about me, now and oft, and with a new andstrange fearfulness of danger, because that now mine Own was given untomy charge; and surely my heart would break, if that there came any hurtunto her.Now, of a sudden, the Maid did make as that she would rise, and I loosedfree from her, to give help. And she gat me by the hand, and slipt
[EMOTION]sudden to her knees, and did kiss my hand, and did begin again to weep.And surely I was so utter abashed that I stood very stupid and let herdo this thing. But in a moment I drew free from her; for this thingmight not be. And I gat me to my knee likewise before her, and took herhands, and kist them once, newly humbled, as it were; and thus shouldshe know all that was in my heart, and of mine understanding. And she
did but sob the more; for she was so weak, and utter moved unto me,because that I had come to her through the night of the world. And thisthing I knew, though no speech had yet past between us. And I gave upher hands, lest she need them for her tears; but she left them to lie inmy palms, as she did kneel there; and she bowed her head a little overher weeping; but did show that she was mine, in verity, unto the veryessence of her dear spirit.And I took her into mine arms, very gently and without caress; butpresently I stroked her hair, and called her Naani and Mirdath, and saidmany things unto her, that now I scarce do wot of, but she did know themin the after time. And she was very quiet in mine arms, and seeming
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][CONTEXT][PROBLEM][CHARACTERIZATION][HORROR]wondrous content; but yet did sob onward for a great time. And oft did Icoax her and say vague things of comfort, as I have told. But truly shedid ask no more comfort at that time than that she be sheltered whereshe did be. And truly she had been lonesome and in terror and in griefand dread, a great and horrid time.
[EMOTION][RELIEF][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE]Now, presently, she was grown quiet; and I made to put her comfortablein the cloak against the rock, that I should have freedom to make hermore of the broth. But yet she did nestle unto me, with a little sweetwistfulness, that made warm my heart in a most wondrous fashion; forsurely she was mine Own. And she to begin to say odd words to me. And soto have gentle obedience, and to rest quiet against the rock, the whilethat I did make the broth. Yet ever her gaze did follow me, as I knew;
[DEATH][CONFLICT][EMOTION]for I must look oft her way.And I took the broth to her, and she drank it, using her own two hands;and I sat by, and eat three of the tablets and drank some of the water,for truly it was a foolish great time since last I had eat.Now, in a while, the broth did make bright the eyes of the Maid, and shedid begin to talk; and at whiles had pauses, because that she lacked ofstrength, and there was more to be told than an human may have theheart-strength and cunning to make plain. And twice she did come againto sobbing; for, truly, her father was dead and the Peoples of theLesser redoubt all slain and dispersed through the night of that Land.
[CONFLICT][ACTION][DANGER][PROBLEM][CONTEXT][SURPRISE][MURDER]And I learned that an Evil Force had made action upon the Peoples withinthe Lesser Redoubt; so that some, being utter weak by reason of thefailing of the Earth-Current, had opened the Great Door, and gone forthinto the night. And immediately there had come into the Lesser Pyramid,great and horrid monsters, and had made a great and brutish chase, andhad slain many; but some had escaped forth into the night.And with these had come Naani, after that her father, the MasterMonstruwacan, had been slain by a shaggy man, very brutal and monstrous.And there had been three maids with Naani, when that she made escapeinto the night; but there had come certain creatures upon them, as theydid sleep among the bushes, and had stolen two, and the other maid hadrun off, as did Naani, and they had neither met the other any more.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][SURPRISE]And this dreadful happening unto the Peoples of the Lesser Redoubt, hadbeen a great while gone, as it to seem to her; but she had no means totell me how long this time should be; for, in verity, how should shemake a count. Yet had it been a dread long while unto her; and I foundpresently, that she had been lost through all that time that I did makemy journey unto her; for, indeed, this thing I discovered by askingconcerning my callings unto her. And she had heard none that did come toher, in any time since she had escaped out of the Lost Refuge into thisdreadful Land.Yet, in verity, oft had she callen unto me, until that her heart didgrow sick with the desolation of her lonesomeness and her utterforsakeness. And her callings had told unto the Evil things of the Land
[DANGER][PROBLEM][CONFLICT]that she did be in this part and that; for there had come things andbeasts in search for her; but having the gift of the hearing, she hadknown of their approach, most whiles, and had come free from them; yetoft-times with piteous and fearful runnings and hiding among the rocksand the bushes, so that she had grown afterward to make no calling untome, save odd whiles, lest she bring the monsters upon her. And, indeed,as you do know, naught had come plain unto me, for she was so utter weakthat she had no power of her brain-elements to send the Word afar or thetellings of her spirit.And because that she was so sorely chased, she had come nigh to benaked, even as I found her; for the bushes and the rocks had torn hergarments from her, and she had naught with which to make any propermending of them. And for food she had eat the moss upon the rocks, andodd strange berries and growths, and had drunk of the waters of the hotsprings; and oft had she been made utter sick, because of the sulphur,or somewhat, of the water and, maybe, the poison of odd plants. Yet, as
[EMOTION][METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][CONTEXT][HORROR]I did think, it was like that the first did save her life from thesecond; but in this thing I do make only a guessing.And in all that dreadful time, since that she had come to be quitealone, she had heard a score drear things; for there had been once theslaying of a young maid nigh unto her, by some Brute out in the darknessof the Land; and thrice and more had she heard the feet of peoplerunning this way and that, and the tread of giants pursuing. And by thistelling I did understand those things which mine ears had told to me asI did go across that Land, and surely a new pity and sorrow and horrordid come upward within me. And the Maid told me how that she came onceupon certain of the Peoples of the Lesser Redoubt, as they did hideamong the bushes; but they ran, with no heed to her callings that shedid be human, even as they; and by this is it plain the sore anddreadful panic that was upon the hearts of such.
[DANGER][CONFLICT]And the bitter chill of the Land had made her to strive alway to be nighunto the fire-holes that were very plentiful; but even as this did beneedful unto her, so was it a thing that drew the Monstrous Brutes ofthat Land, even as I had found in the Night Land, and in the UpwardGorge. And because of this, she was oft made to stay afar off in theutter cold of the night.Yet, in truth, odd whiles she did be so desperate, that she would makethe venture, and so mayhaps have a time of warmth; and because of this,she had been nigh slain in her sleep, twice and thrice. Moreover, therewere snakes about the fires, though not over-plentiful in all parts, andthere did be spider-crabs and monstrous scorpions.
[CONFLICT][DANGER][DEATH][METAPHOR]And, indeed, even as she had lain by the fire-hole, very weak andseeming near unto her death, even this time when my call had come untoher to stir her unto life and bitter knowledge of despair, even then wasshe all surround by creatures that were like to crabs, that did squatall about her, and did but wait for her to die; so that she had beenfeared to sleep, lest they destroy her in her slumber.And by this thing, she had known that her death was surely nigh; and lo!out of all the night of the world had come the beat of the Master-Word,strong and powerful, beating as a low and spiritual thunder out of allthe dark of the night. Yet had she thought of me, only as speaking fromthe far-off Mighty Pyramid; so that the cry had brought naught of hopeunto her, but only a newer and more known despair. And, behold, in a
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK]little minute, there had come her name, spoken surely with the tongue;and a name that was different from the name that my spirit had saidafter the beat of the Word. And immediately, I had come out of the bush,and she had fallen back in a sudden great fear that a monster was stolenupon her; and then did see a young man in grey armour, and did know inone instant that I was that olden one of her memory dreams, and the onethat had spoken unto her in the spirit across half of the dead world, asit did seem. And now was I come through all that unknown desolation andaffright, to succour her. And she was immediately safe; but yet allbroken because of her weakness and her utter joy and her sweet honourfor me.
[EMOTION][HORROR]And this is the chief of that which she did tell unto me; and the waythat she had seen and did regard the marvel of this our coming together.But, surely, no man was made ever to be worthy of the way that she didlook upon me, or of the words that she did say unto me in her weaknessand happiness. Now, with the Maid having speech concerning thespider-crabs, I lookt presently well around, and surely, in a minute, Isaw that they were not gone away; but did be a circle of silent andsteadfast watching and impudence and horror all about us. And surelythis thing put an anger and disgust upon me; so that I gat to my feet,and went unto the border of the light, and I spurned this little monsterand that, and did truly kick maybe a dozen, before that they werecontent to be gone. And by this thing shall you know of their calm and
[PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT]foolish assurance; but yet were they seemingly without courage; for theymade not to attack me. Yet a true crab of this day been wishful to pinchme, had I put my toe forth unto it.Now, I went back to the Maid, and she did laugh with a little, weakgleefulness; so that I perceived that she was like to be a very joyousmaiden, if but I did have her in health. And I made her another cup ofthe broth, and she drank it very easy. And afterward, I made a very
stern and playful order that she must sleep, and, indeed, she to need itsore, for she was gone again from her excitement, and her weakness uponher; yet very happy and content and without fear.And I made a smooth place for her, and put the pouch and the scrip to befor a pillow, and I did lay her there very quiet and sweet in the cloak,and covered her feet; but, indeed, I saw first that they did be sore cutand without any gear to them; so that I perceived that Mine Own had wornout her foot-gear utter in her lonesome journeyings, and in running fromBrutes that did come to find her. And so I to know more in the heart,somewhat of the true dreadfulness and fear that had companioned MineOwn. And I was minded then that I would wash and bind up her feet; butyet was she so utter worn, that I did prefer that she sleep so soon asshe might, and afterward, when she was come wakeful again, then should Itake a proper heed of her feet. And truly, they were very small and
[HORROR]shapely.And presently, she slept; and, surely, I doubt whether she had slumberedso peaceful and proper for a great month; for she never to have knownwhen any evil thing should come upon her in her sleep. And this to be avery dreadful feeling, as you do know well; for you do know how I hadbeen in this same matter.Now, while Naani did sleep, I stript off mine armour, and took off mineunder-suit, which was named the Armour-Suit, and a very warm and propergarment, and made thick that it should ease the chafe of the armour. And
afterward, I put on the armour again; but the suit I folded, and laidbeside the Maid; for, truly, she was nigh unclothed, by reason of thebushes and the rocks, that had rent her garments all-wise.And I stood watch for the Maid, the while that she did slumber; andsurely she went ten long hours. And I walked upon this side of thefire-hole and now upon that, and did oft cease, that I might hearkenboth with mine ears and with my spirit; for, truly, I was all wakened toa new care and delight, and did have a fresh and doubled fear of anyHorrid Creature or Force of Evil. And this shall be very plain to you.
[TRANSITION][EMOTION][FLASHBACK]And in the end of ten long hours, the Maid wakened, and I ran to her alljoyed that she was come again to knowledge and to be that I could talkwith her.And she sat upward and looked at me, and there was new light andmovement in her, so that I knew her strength was come back into her. Andfor a little minute, she said naught unto me, the while that I did askhow she did be; and she lookt at me very keen, so that I wondered somewise in a daze, what was in her mind.And she askt me, of a sudden, how long it did be since that I had slept.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION]And having not thought to put away her asking, because that the questionwas over sudden, I said four-and-eighty hours, which should be threedays and the half of a day of four hours and twenty; and this thing Iknew, because that I kept alway a very careful counting of the hours,lest that I get all adrift, and know not how long I was taken to come tothis place and that.And, truly, even as I told this thing to the Maid, I was grown veryquaint in the head; for, indeed, I was gone a wondrous while withoutslumber, and had done much and bitter work in that time; and before thenhad been much lacking of rest, as you do know.And, sudden the Maid cried out something, and tost the cloak from her,and had me into her arms, and did heed not to have any foolish shame ofher nakedness. And, in verity, I knew not how I was gone so strange; butdo see now that I was nigh to swoon for lack of slumber and rest.
And she kept me very steady for a little, and afterward helped me to belaid upon the ground; and she put the scrip and the pouch under my head;and so I did lie very calm and restful, and did be the more so, becausethat I was grown so tired in the heart, the which did make my head to bevery husht, as that all the world was grown very quiet in a moment.And the Maid did mind then that she did lack to be properly covered, andshe gat the cloak, and put it about her, and did afterward sit a littlebeside me, and did rub my hands. And presently, I was something more tomyself, and she did grow more happy of her mind, and made to give mesomething for my stomach; for, indeed, I was grown those late hours tobe foolish and to have no wiseness to proper eating.And she did lift my head, the while that she did take the scrip fromunder, and kept me very sweetly upon her knee, and so until she had gatfree a pack of the tablets, and the flask and the cup; for I had put allmatters back into the scrip before Naani had gone unto sleep, andbecause of this, I had not been able to eat or drink aught, save bywakening her, as you perceive; for, indeed I had put the scrip and thepouch under her head for a pillow, as I have told.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]And she would not bide that I should do aught; but only did askconcerning the making of the water, and was wondrous amazed to see howthe powder did fizz up and become water; and indeed, she had too muchinto the cup, for, truly, it rose up and ran to the ground. And when shehad done thus, and ceased to marvel, she put three of the tablets intothe water, and made me a broth, even as I had made a broth for her; but,indeed, I was in no need, and had done very well to eat the tablets anddrink the water. Yet, truly, I was not wishful to lack the love of herway, as you may think.Now while I did drink the broth, I did be very restful upon the earth,and mine head against mine own Maid; and I did mind me now that I tellher concerning the Armour-Suit that I did mean for her wear.
Yet I said not that I had stript it from me, for then she had been liketo say nay, and to trouble that I was like to come to a chill, as is theway of a woman. But, indeed, I might so well have told her, for truly,she did know on the moment, and set to a little unto weeping; yet verygentle and sweet, and did kiss me as I lay there, and say such things asshould make a young man the better to have heard, if but that his owndear Love doth say the same.And she would nowise wear the garment; but yet in the end I prevailed bygentle reasonings and because that I was her master, as I was born tobe; and moreover, her own sweet sense did show that I spoke for wisdom;for how should she come through all the bitter way before, if that shehad not a strong and close-made garment; and as you do mind, hercoverings did be in utter rags, as I have told; yet very sweet andclean, as I had known; so that I ween she had stript oft in the lonesomenight, and washt her garments in this or that hot spring of the sulphurwaters and other matters.And, in verity, alway she was much given to washings, as I did soonperceive.
Now, presently, I did be very well again; but with a sore slumber thatdid press upon my head. Yet, ere I should sleep, I did mean that I batheher feet and bind them with ointment and with my pocket-cloth; and trulyher feet were very small and pretty.And I sat me up, talking my head from her knee; and told her of mineintent. But, in verity, she did but throw her arms about my neck andgive me one loving kiss, and laught so hearty that I did think to dothis thing when indeed she was the better able to mind it, and I thebetter suited to have me to my rest. And, surely, this was very true,
and I made no ado, save to give her the ointment; but lay back, and didbe quiet.Now I did be upon my right side, and she went to my back, and took thecloak from about her, and spread it upon me, and afterward stoopt oververy dainty, and kist me, and bade me to go very swift to my sleep, forthat she did mean to make her toilet and to get into mine Armour-Suit.And I made no foolishness in this matter; yet told her to ease the cloaka little about me, so that I should have room to take the Diskos from myhip; and this thing I did, and took the Diskos to my breast, as was myhabit; and surely I saw that her eyes did look at me with a littleshining, because that I had so strange and fierce a bed-mate.And I made her to promise that she keep a very keen harking, the whichwas like that she should do, and to call me on the instant that she didperceive any unease in the night. And after that, I shut mine eyes, that
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][WITCH]I should not shame her, and put out mine arms, and kist her once andturned from her unto my slumber; and she away to my back that she mightbe modest to her needs.And surely, I was asleep in but a little moment, and with a great loveand delight in my heart and in all my being.And, truly, I waked not for twelve great hours. And when that time wasgone, lo! I came awake, and surely the Maid did sit beside me, so bonny,
[EMOTION]and so winsome and pretty that mine arms went unto her in a moment, andshe into them, and gave me a loving and tender kiss; and afterward sliptaway from me, very sensible and loving; and did stand up and turn aboutto be lookt at. For she did wear the Armour-Suit, and surely it wasloose upon her; but yet very pleasing, being close-knit. And I to myseat, from lying, that I might see the Maid the better. And, in verity,I must kiss her again; for she did be with her hair all about her, thatshe look pretty unto me; and her little feet did be bare, and so thatthey made my heart new tender to look upon them; for truly she was utterlost of foot-gear. And I to my knee to her; and she, not to deny me, did
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK][GHOST]come to be kist again.Now when I found how great a time I had slept, I did scold Mine Own; butyet, as she did say, I must have long slumber if that I go so longwakeful, else should I lose my strength. And I askt how oft she had eat,and she told me but the once, and that six hours off.And on this I did scold again; but surely she put a very pretty fingersudden upon my lips, so that I might do naught but laugh, and kiss thatsame finger.
[EMOTION][RELIEF][PERSPECTIVE]And, after that, we did eat and drink, and made plans. And once I didcomfort the Maid; for, indeed, her sorrow did rise in her, because thather father was come unto his death, and the Peoples of the LesserRedoubt all destroyed, and adrift in the night amid the monsters of thatLand.And, in verity, I was set that we go quickly out of that place, erethere came an horrid Destruction upon us; and, surely, there shouldscarce be any human, beside, in all that Land; for there must have comedeath upon the chief of those that did make escape.And after we had eat and drunk, I did count the packs of the tablets,and was thankful in all my being that I had been careful and denied mybelly; for I did perceive that there were left enough for our needs, ifthat we made a good speed, and did not fear to be empty. And of the
[SURPRISE][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE]water-powder, as it might be named, there were left two full flasks, andsomewhat of that one that I had drunk from, all my journeying. And bythis thing you shall perceive that we did not be like to die for theneed of such matters.And here, as it doth occur unto me, I do ponder how it did be that wehad no thought to slay any small creature for our food; but, mayhap, wehad no knowledge this way; for surely, they did not this thing to myknowing in the Mighty Pyramid. But yet, as I have said before this, Ihave not all knowledge of the doings of the Peoples. But, in verity, I
[EMOTION]never saw joint meat in all the time of that far Life that I do wot of.Yet, had we but slain somewhat for our hunger in that great wandering,we had been less empty in the belly.Now, before that we should do aught beside, we must contrive that Naanihave some gear for her feet; and to this intent, I did make a searchinto the pouch, and surely I found that there did be a change pair ofinner shoes, that were made to go within mine own shoes of the greymetal.And at this I was wondrous glad, and did make the Maid to sit upon alittle rock, while that I made a fitting of the shoes. And, surely, they
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT]did be utter big and clumsy upon her little feet; so that I was insurprise to know how great is a man, beside a Maid. But in the end I hada cunning thought, for I cut off all the side of a strap, throughout thelength of the strap, very thin and careful, and so had a lace to tie theboots around the tops, which were soft and easy for such a purpose. Andafter that, I stood away to look at the Maid, and neither she nor I weretruly pleased; for, indeed, she was too pretty to be so hid and muffled.Yet were we glad otherwise; for now she might go without hurt to herfeet.
And afterward, we packt our gear, and she did make a bundle of her torngarments; for, truly, they might be proper somewise to our need. And sowe to begin the way out of that Desolate Land.And we went forward together across the Land, and the journey was nomore a weariness, but of a close and sweet joy; yet did I have a newanxiousness, as you do perceive, lest that any monster come to harm MineOwn.And we went twelve great hours in the bed of the olden sea, and did eattwice in that time. And surely the Maid did grow utter weak and weary;
[CONFLICT]for she was not come proper unto her strength; yet did she make no oddsaying to tell me of this thing. But indeed, I did know; and I stopt inthe thirteenth hour, and took her into mine arms, even as I should carrya babe; and I went forward with her, and did hush her protesting with akiss, and afterward she did but nestle unto me and shelter against mybreast.And I bade the Maid to sleep; but, indeed, she had no power to this end,for her body did ache very sore; but yet did she strive to give me anobedience in this thing. And in the eighteenth hour, when that I stoptto have food and drink, surely she did be awake, yet had she been uttersilent; and I made to scold her; but she gat from mine arms, and did goupward upon her toes, and put her finger against my lips very naughtily.
[EMOTION]And afterward she did be impudent unto me, and did deny me to kiss her.But she went unto my back, and did open the scrip, and gat me to myfood, even as a quiet and proper wife should go. As she did be so sedatethat I knew she had mischief her heart of harmless kind.But afterward this did pass sudden into weeping; for she had a quick andsore memory of her father and of the Destruction; and I took the Maidinto mine arms, and did let her be there very gentle, and made not tokiss or to comfort her; but yet to give comfort.
[WITCH]And presently she ceased from weeping, and did slip her hand into mine,and I to keep it within, very soft and quiet; and afterward, she beganto eat her tablets, yet always she did be very husht; so that I did bequiet also, and feel as that my love did be round her as a shield. And Iknew that she had knowledge of this thing in her heart.And oft I harked into the night of the Land; but there was nowhere anysound, or disturbing of the aether, to trouble me. And the Maid in minearms did know when that I harked; for in verity, she had theNight-Hearing and the understanding spirit that doth be needful to such.
[TRANSITION]And odd whiles did I look down to her through the gloom that did beabout us; and presently I did perceive that she lookt up to me, out ofmine arms.And I kist her.Now, in all that day, we had come nowhere upon any fire-hole in the bedof the olden sea; and truly I did ache to be nigh unto the warmth ofsuch; for I did feel the cold of the Land, because that I was weary, andbecause that I had not the thickness of the Armour-Suit below minearmour to warm me.And the cloak did be about the Maid; for I had feared that she shouldgrow cold as I carried her. Yet, now she did know subtly that I was cometo feel the utter chill of the Land; and she gat from mine arms, and putthe cloak about me, and afterward came again into mine arms. And I letthe cloak bide there, and drew it forward to be around her, also. Yet,
[EMOTION][CONFLICT]truly, I was joyful that I did be cold, as you shall perceive. For itwas sweet to the heart to bear somewhat of that dread chill for MineOwn; and she half troubled and likewise with understanding of my heart,because that I was less clothed than I had been.Now, in a little while, the Maid did pack the scrip; and so we did makeready again to go forward, for I was grown anxious, as you may suppose,that we should come to some fire-hole, that we have a place for sleepthat had warmth and light; for, truly, the cold of the Land did be drearand horrid.And I stoopt to take the Maid into mine arms, that I should carry her;but she did say nay, that she did be well rested. And I not to gainsay
[PERSPECTIVE]her, for she did mean the thing, as I perceived, and I had no desire toforce my way upon her, save when I saw truly that she did seem to gounwisely. And, indeed, when such did be the case I did strive with her,only with a nice reasonableness, as you shall know.And the Maid walkt by my side, and wondrous silent; but yet very nigh tome, so that I knew she did be very full of love to me, and of thatquaint and sweet humbleness that love doth breed odd whiles in a womanwhen she doth be with her man, if but that man be also her master. Andpresently, I perceived that the cloak did be over mine own shoulders,and I took it and would have put it about the Maid; but truly she didnot allow this; and when I did be stern with her, that she obey me inthis matter, she did stand upon her toes, that she might kiss me, andpulled my head down, and surely she kist me and coaxed me that I wearthe cloak, else should I give pain to her, in that I did surely be coldbecause she did wear the Armour-Suit.
[CONFLICT][PROBLEM][DANGER][SURPRISE][EMOTION][WITCH]Yet, I would not hark to this thing; so that the Maid did be truly introuble. And first she made a threatening that she wear but her oldengarments that did be only rags, if that I did persist. But this I saw tobe foolishness and scarce-meant, and did as much need to smile at her asthat I did think to scold her; but I did be firm that she wear thecloak.And lo! she went sudden into crying; and this had been beyond my
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][PROBLEM][CONFLICT]thoughts. And truly, it set me all adrift; for I perceived that she didbe greatly distrest concerning this matter, when I had conceived thatshe did but mean this thing for tenderness' sake. But mine heart helpedme to understand, and I saw how she did be truly shamed, in her sweetwomanhood, if that I helped her not in this matter; for she did feelthat she was made to do hurt unto that one that was her Love. And thisthing I do pray you to think upon, that you understand; for, indeed,until that I was made to think, I had not seen it thiswise, for her.
[CONFLICT][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][WITCH]And in the end, I came to agreement with the Maid, that we wear thegarment hour by hour, in turn; and she to wear it the first hour and Ito wear it the second hour; and so to go forward.And truly, this did be an happy arranging; but yet she stampt her foot alittle, as I put the cloak about her. And thrice in the hour did she askme concerning the time that was gone; and surely, when the hour was butup, she had the cloak off in a moment, and went to my back and cast itupon my shoulders, and after to my front, and made it fast upon mybreast; and so eager and naughty was she to this, that I took her by theshoulders, and shook her, somewhat, even as she had made to stamp at me;yet mayhaps with more of laughter. And she to take no heed at all; butto button the cloak and be very sedate. Yet, in verity, I caught her up
into mine arms, and kissed her, for a sweet and naughty Maid; and shevery willing, now that she had gotten something of her way.But yet in an hour, I did have the cloak about her, again; and so didstraiten matters, as you shall conceive.Now, when we had gone forward, through five great hours, I perceivedthat the Maid did be utter worn, but yet did make presence that she wasunwearied. And because I saw how she did be, I did heed and be anxiousonly that we come to some rock, to be for our safe refuge, and mayhapthere to find an hole or cave, that should be somewhat to keep our heatabout us; for there was nowhere any fire-hole anigh in all those hours.
And presently, we came to a part where there did be rocks, and we wentto and fro in the gloom, and came in the end to a place where the rocksdid go upward into the night, as that it had been a small and ancientcliff.And surely in a while I found a hole that did go inwards of the rock;and the hole did be above mine head; yet when I was come to it, and hadmade the Diskos to spin therein, that I should have light to see whetherthere did be any creature or creeping thing in the hole, I was wellpleased; for truly it did be sweet and dry.Now the Maid had cried out a little to see the sudden shining that didcome from within the hole, when I made the Diskos to spin, and becauseof the low roar of the weapon. But I answered her that there did benaught to have fear concerning; and so was she peaceful again, but yet alittle trembling when that I came down to her; for, indeed, the Diskosdid make always a strange sounding and a quaint and drear shining, asyou do know; and she did be feared for me that some Evil Force had comeupon me out of the cave; for she had neither knowledge nor conceivingthat ever there did be so wondrous a weapon in all the world.And I gave the Maid an help upward to the little cave, and came after,myself; and so we did be in a very nice and cosy place, that did not beeasily gotten at by any monstrous thing. And surely I was utter glad for
such a place, so that both should have safety that we might sleep in thesame hours.And, in truth, this was a needful plan; for if one had stayed wakeful tokeep a watch for the other, then had our sleep taken us double hours;and this thing might not be, else should our food be done, and we to betwice so long as need be, ere ever we did come unto the refuge of theMighty Pyramid; and I utter wearied and anxious of the heart and spiritthat I bring Mine Own soon unto the safety and glory of my Mighty Home,and so free from the Destruction that did hang above our two souls forever in that Land, and the peril that did be everywhere, save in theLast Redoubt.Now when we were come into the hole of the rock, the Maid did slip thescrip and the pouch from my shoulders; and she gat out the tablets, andmade some of the water, and did be very swift and natty, and all to thedespite of the gloom that did be utter in that little cave.And we eat each of us two of the tablets and drank some of the water;and I made jest with the Maid how that the tablets did be proper forstrength, yet very lacking to fill the belly; though, indeed, I named itotherwise.
And she to agree, and did pat mine arm, and did tell me how that sheshould cook me a monstrous tasty and great meal when that we were comeunto the Mighty Pyramid. And immediately afterward, she did make tolaugh upon me, and to name me impudently for so much thought unto myfeeding; and afterward again to silence, and to patting my hand.Now, when that we had made an end of eating and drinking, I was veryready for sleep; for, truly, it was six and twenty great hours sincethat I did last slumber; but for the Maid it did be eight and thirtygreat hours; for, as you do mind, she had made no sleeping when that shedid lie in mine arms for six hours of our journeying.And I made how we should sleep; and put the cloak about the Maid; butsurely she did refuse, very piteous, and seeming to have also somewhatof doubt and puzzlement. But in this thing I did be very stern and
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][ACTION]intending; for she did not be over-warm clad, as you do know, andmoreover, she was but a little One, while I did be wondrous hardy.And, in verity, I made her to obey, and gave her the scrip and the pouchfor her pillow; and she, as it did seem to me, to sob to herself alittle in the gloom of the night. But yet did I stay my heart a littlestern to mine intent. And I wrapt the cloak about her, and set the scripand the pouch very nice beneath her head; and afterward, I knelt over tokiss her, before that I came unto mine own slumber. Yet did she turn her
mouth from me, and did put her hand above her face to ward me off, thewhich did grieve me; for truly, I did heed alway that I should neverthrust my love upon her in her lonesomeness; but only let it be to herfor a shield and for all comfort unto her heart.And I turned my back, and went a pace away and lay down; for truly theredid be no way else but to be near unto the Maid, for it was but a littlecave. And I lay very husht, because that I was so sore in the heart.Yet, truly, I could not come unto my slumber, for I was so disturbed inmy love; and I stayed very quiet maybe for a great hour; and did fightthat I shake not mine armour to jinglings with the utter cold that didmake me to tremble. But the Maid did sleep very sweet and calm, as I
[SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][PROBLEM][GHOST]perceived by her breathings.Yet, in verity, the Maid did be so much awake as I, and with some sweetand naughty intent of the heart, as my spirit did sudden perceive. And Ilay very husht, and did wait to discover what this thing might be.And I made my breathing to seem as the breathing of one that did sleep,even as that naughty Maid did make pretending. And surely, in a while I
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][DANGER]did know that she moved very quiet, and came unto me; and I made yetthat I slept very sound and strong; though the cold did nigh to conquerall my quietness.And in a moment I perceived the intent of the Maid; for I did feel thecloak spread over me with a wondrous gentleness; and afterward there didbe a soft kiss put upon my hand; and the Maid back then to her pillow;yet, as I did hear, she brought it something more nigh to me; as thatshe did crave to be near unto me that was her own Love.And I sat up, and I put forth my hands suddenly and took the Maid intomine arms; and she to nestle unto me so that I did be wordless, becausethat I loved her so utter.And presently, I felt her to stir in mine arms; and I loost hersomewhat; for I did be always very mindful that I impose not upon herdear liberty of maidenhood. Yet she made not to go from me, but only to
[CONFLICT][SURPRISE][PROBLEM]gather the cloak about her; so that we did both be in the cloak. And sheaskt why this might not be; for surely it did be madness that one shouldstarve and the other be very nice in warmth. And, indeed, this did bebut wisdom; yet it might not come the first from me.And I said to Mine Own that this thing should be; and she reached out,and brought the scrip and the pouch, and placed them for a pillow for myhead, and told me that I should put my head thereon. And I askt her howthis did be right; for she did need a pillow the more than I. But she
[TRANSITION][WITCH]bid me to bide, and to have obedience in my turn. And when I was so, shespread the cloak over me, and afterward crept under, and did lie downbeside me, and did seem as that she was asleep in one moment.Yet, though she did be so sedate and matter-of-the-fact, as we do say,while that she was wakeful, she did yet nestle unto me very sweet andchildlike in her sleep. And surely I did want to kiss her; but yet didrefrain from my love; for, truly, I did well that I treat her verygently, at such a time, as you do perceive. And, in verity, such a Maid
[SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][METAPHOR][CONTEXT][FLASHBACK]doth make a reverence in the soul of a man.Now, presently, I was gone over unto sleep; and in seven hours I waked;and in that time had the Maid slumbered through eight hours; yet did Iintend that she be not disturbed, until that we were aready to thejourney. And I slipt from under the cloak, and put it round her, verygentle. Yet it to be as she did miss me, even in her sleep; for it toseem to me that she put out her arms in the darkness, and she made alittle moaning in her slumber. Yet, in a moment, she did be quiet, and
[SURPRISE]afterward I put the cloak about her again.And I went then to the opening of the little cave, and put forth myhead, and lookt well about, and harked a long while; but there stirrednothing in the night thereabout; neither did my spirit wot of any matterfor trouble unto us.And presently, I gat out two of the tablets; for, as you do know, theMaid had given me the scrip and the pouch to be my pillow, so that I hadpower to come at these matters, without awaking her; but for her ownpart, as I did learn after, she had used her torn garments to be for apillow; yet had made no explaining, as you do mind; and surely this wasone of her naughty whimsies; and mayhap she had been so full of aplayful happiness--as doth take the heart betimes--that she had made alittle mystery where there did be no mystery; and this but to releaseher joy, and so to say masterful things unto me, out of her impudence;and afterward had meant that she tell me; but yet was gone unto slumber,ere that she did mind her.Yet, since that time, a new thought hath come unto me that she did meanin the first that she should come into mine arms to sleep, and therebyneed no pillow. But afterward, it may hap that she saw with a sudden
[TRANSITION][ACTION][PERSPECTIVE]olden wisdom, all in one moment; and afterward did act lovingly, yetwith understanding. And so did change from her intent; yet with noimproperness of modesty; but only with a niceness of Sense, which shedid make no talk of; but yet did have. And surely, how oft is a man thuswisely ordered, unknowing.And to cease from these thinkings, and to go forward, I eat two of thetablets, and afterward made some of the water. And lo! the fizzing of
[ACTION][CONFLICT][EMOTION][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE][WITCH]the water waked the Maid; and I knew that she reached out very sudden tome; but afterward knew in a moment what did make the sound, and that Idid be up and making ready for the journeying.And she gat up in the darkness, and said my name, and came unto me, andkist my forehead in the dark; and immediately she ran her hands gentlydownward of my left arm, and when she came to the cup, she took it fromme, and slapt my hand, very dainty. And afterward I knew that she took asip from the cup, and then did turn that side to me, and so gave me todrink, and did scold me that I had not waked her to tend to my needs;for surely she did be Mine Own, to have her duties to me.And after that I had drank, she took the cup, and did finish it; and shegat two of the tablets, as I did think, and came afterward and sat uponthe rock to my side, and did nestle somewhat against mine armour, andtook mine arm and set it about her; and so did make to eat.
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][WITCH]But first she put her tablet unto my lips, in the dark, that I shouldkiss it; and surely this was an olden way of Mirdath My Beautiful One;so that I did be all shaken of the heart. And I kist the tablet; andimmediately she nestled unto me, and did begin to eat.And truly it was as that Eternity had been rolled backward; for I haddiscovered the soul of mine olden Love in this dainty Maid to my side.Yet, in looks had Mirdath been of an utter differing; but, in verityNaani was wondrous lovely. But, though I to be so stirred, I did be
[FLASHBACK]silent; for my heart was very full of memory.And as the Maid eat, she slipt her fingers between mine, curling themsoftly; and surely her fingers did be very little; and she stirred mineolden memories again in this thing. And surely I was dumb before myMemory.And presently, she put up the second tablet, as I did think, that Ishould kiss it; and I kist it, as before. Yet, ere she did begin again
to eat, I did wot suddenly that she hid some intent from me.And I caught her hand very quick in the dark; and her fingers did closeupon the tablet, very guilty; so that I perceived that I had guessedaright. And I opened her fingers; and I found that there did be but thehalf of a tablet within her hand. And surely she had taken but that onetablet, and had given me the one end to kiss, and afterward the other;so that I should suppose she did eat two proper and complete tablets.
And I perceived that she had done this thing secretly, being minded thatif she eat always but one tablet, then should I never lack, even if thatwe did be over-long coming unto the Mighty Pyramid.And I askt how oft already had she eat but one, for two. And sheconfessed in a very quiet voice that this did make the fifth time. And Iwas so angered, that I took her hand and whipt it thrice, so hard thatshe had screamed if that she had been any coward. And she said nothing
to me, neither went away.And she began again to eat the half of the tablet, and did eat it fromthe other hand, as I to be aware, because that her left hand did behurt. And she wept not, but was very quiet by me; and presently I knewthat she kist the whipt hand secretly in the dark.And afterward, I put mine arm again about her; and she did be there init, very sober and happy. And when she had made an end of the first
[EMOTION]tablet, I gave her the second, and she eat it very quiet and content.And presently I talked with her, and showed her how that this thing didhurt my heart, even as she had been hurt that I did be cold garmented,the while that she did be warm. And I showed her the wickedness that shehad done, that she did play so foolish with her life and strength; andwell might she be weak and all a-lack.Yet, did I think a little sweet impudence came into her, as I told herconcerning her wickednesses. And I took her then into mine arms, and I
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK]showed her how that I knew all the unselfishness and wonder of herheart; and I kist her, and truly her lips did have a lovely gladhumbleness as they came unto mine; so that it was as that I had not kisther truly until that moment. And I made her to promise that she neverdeceive me in such matter again. And indeed she promised; but yet withno ready tongue.And afterward, we made proper for the journey; and when we had gottenour gear together, I went downward of the rock, and gave the Maid helpto come down. And when we did stand at last upon the bottom of the rock,
I askt Naani how she did feel, and whether her feet did hurt. And sheanswered that she did be very well and had no soreness in her feet.And we went forward then, and she close unto me; and odd whiles with lowspeech, but more oft with silence, because that we did need that we harkalway for any danger or horror; and also there did be so utter a silenceupon that part of the Land, which did be the bottom of the olden sea.And we eat and drank at the sixth and the twelfth hours; and in thefifteenth hour, we came upon a great slope of the earth; and lo! it did
[EMOTION][DANGER]be the far side of the sea. And we went upward for a long hour; and socame to the upward part, and did be able once more to look over thegreatness of that Land.XITHE HOMEWARD WAYNow, truly, it did seem very light, after the horrid and lonesome gloomthat did lie all-ways in the bottom of the olden sea; and I saw that Iwas come out upon a part of the Land that did be surely to the right ofthat place where I made entry into the sea-bed, on mine outward going.And there did be a great plenty of fire-holes, so that mine heart waswarmed to see them; yet did I mind to be wary in coming unto them; for,as you do know, there did so oft be life of this kind and that aboutthese fires.
And I lookt now down to the Maid, and she upward to me, and did comemore anigh to me, and truly she did be most wondrous pretty and sweet;yet did seem very awearied and pale in the face; so that I made blameupon myself that I had overwalked her; for, in verity, I do think that Iwas so strong and hard as that I had been made from iron; and she but adear and tender Maid. Yet did she refuse that I should so reproachmyself; and did but stand anigh to me and look at me with eyes that werevery beautiful. And so I put mine arms about her, and kist her; andafterward lookt again over the Land, that I should shape out our furtherjourneying.And from that place where I did stand, there spread out all before methe blue shining that I had seen from the mouth-part of the UpwardGorge; yet did it be a great way off. And, indeed, I should tell you in
this place, that it was by the glimmering of this shine within the skyof the night that I had steered, as we did come across the oldensea-bed. And, truly, it was but a broad thing to go toward; but yet didserve me, in that it told me that I went toward the far side of thesea-bed, and made not to go all about in blind circles in the night.And after that I had considered a while, I did know somewhat where theGorge should be, and perceived that I should go unto my left; but notovermuch, for indeed I saw the red-shining of the giants' hole that layat a great space that way; and surely I must go so that I missed theplace of the giants so much as I might, and in the same going, come notovernear unto the blue-shining that lay before me, across all the farpart of that Country; for, in verity, I Mistrusted the place where thatshining did be.Now when I had gained somewhat of knowledge where should be found theMouth of the Upward Gorge, I put mine arm about the Maid, where she didstand so nigh to me, and very husht, the while that I had lookt about. And
[PERSPECTIVE]I pointed outward over the dark Land unto my left, and told her that theGorge did be somewhere that way, a great distance off; yet utter out of mysight, and only to be known that it did be somewise there by the thingsthat I did mind of, concerning my way after I came into the Land.Now the Maid, having stood very quiet, had lookt all that time abouther; and so had come to some knowing of the place where she did be in theLand, for she to know the land someways, as you shall think. And she asktme how I did mind to go; and truly I said, so straight as we might; but yetso that we come neither too nigh to the shining nor to the great redfire-pit of the Giants.And the Maid bade me to look in the way that I did mind to go; and Ilookt, but yet there was nothing save, as they did seem, certainfire-holes that had a green-shining about them. And she set out unto me
[DANGER]then, how that there did go a tract of bad gas in that part of theLand, that should be utter poisonous unto any; and this had been wellknown in the Lesser Redoubt, by the reading of their instruments. Andwhere the gas did go, there was there a green-shining about thefire-holes.And she showed me how that the Place of the Gas went a great way untothe North-West, so that I learned now somewhat how the land did lie, as wedo say in these days. And it was in all the North-West that the greatblue-shining did burn. And I askt Naani how they named this, and she told
[PROBLEM][CONFLICT]me by no name, save but The Shine.And Mine Own made very earnest to warn me, regarding The Shine; and urgedthat we go no more that-wards than should be needful to our lives--thewhich, indeed, was no wish of mine. And her reason to be that the FixedGiants did be within the borders of The Shine, and all hid in the lightthereof, save when the burning mist did roll this way or that. And Itook a great heed of this thing, and did guess that these Fixed Giantswere somewhat even as the Great Watchers that were about the MightyPyramid, as you do know. And immediately I minded me of that utter
[DANGER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]monstrous face that I did see amid the bright smoke of The Shine, whenthat I came first into the Land; and surely this had been one of theFixed Giants, that Naani told me were Forces of great and very horridEvil.And I askt Mine Own how far the Place of the Gas went across the Land;and she pointed and made further explaining. And, in verity, in theend, I saw not how I should come that way to the mouth of the Gorge, ifthat I would keep off-wards from The Shine. Yet, in a moment, Naani asktme how I did come across the Land, when that I searched for her. And,
truly, as I showed her, I had walked then by a sweet chance, or guiding,alway upon the far side of the Place of the Gas, and so unto the OldenSea bed; and was in this way come free of the gas, and all unknowing ofit.And at this telling, the Maid said that we go downward again into thebed of the Olden Sea, and walk some great hours below the shore, but inthe way that should take us unto the South-West, and so until we werecome beyond the Place of the Gas. And afterward up again into the Land,and then to have an utter caution that we escape the watching of thegiants who did be ever about the Great Red Fire-Hole. And by this planvery speedy to the entering-part of the Upward Gorge.
[TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT]And, truly, this did be very good and sound, and such as I should haveplanned in a moment; for, indeed, I am not over-slow in such matters;only the Maid did be very eager and quick; and it was very sweet to methat she should thus plan; for, in verity, I loved alway the sounding ofher voice, and to hear her have speech and to plan and think, and so toshow me the workings of her inward self and her dear qualities and humanniceness. And to have part and lot alway with me in all things andthinkings.And, we shaped to this plan that Naani made; but at that time, as you domind, it was somewhat of seventeen hours since last we had slumber; andthe Maid was sore wearied, as I did see. And I showed to her how that itdid be wise that we have our rest very soon, and so forward again in newstrength and ability.
[ACTION]And the Maid did soon agree with me; for indeed she was very weary; andwe made it that we should venture unto one of the fire-holes that lay nogreat seeming away, a little upon our right, which was the Northward-wayof that Land.And we went toward the fire-hole; and, truly, it did be further off thanwe had thought; for it was a good hour before that we came anigh to it;and, indeed, it to prove a very great and red-glowing shine that wentupward into the night, out of the hollow place where it did burn amongrocks.And when we were come near unto it, I made a sign to the Maid that shebe utter husht; and I took the Diskos from mine hip, and went forwardbefore her; and afterward to my knees and hands, and beckoned backwardto Mine Own, that she do likewise.And we came this way to the edge of the hollow-place where the fire-holedid burn; and so were able in the end to look downward. And truly it was
a great fire that burned in the earth in that place; yet, as I perceivedvery swift, there did seem nowhere any monstrous thing about the fire,the which set some peace upon mine heart; but yet not overmuch; for itwas come fresh upon me that we did well to stay afar off from the firesof the Land, in that it was about the fires that all living things didcongregate.And I lookt a great time, and the Maid crept unto mine elbow, and looktwith me; and afterward we harked, very keen, into the night; but therewas nowhere any trouble of the air or of the aether of the Land. Yet Ispoke quiet with the Maid, and showed unto her how that we did well tostay off-ward from the fires; but, truly, she was so utter cold andchill, that she did beg that we go down by the fire-hole, even should itbe that we stay no more there than should put a warmth through the utterchill of our bodies.And, in verity, I was so bitter cold that I was all weak to go besidethe fire; yet, truly, I do think that the shiverings of the Maid wasthat which did force my heart, to go against the teachings of my head;so that in the end, we came down into the hollow, and very swift untothe fire.
Now, truly, it doth seem a strange thing to be so diverse-minded asthis, when that, as you do know, I had been so long a-search for afire-pit; and mayhaps you shall perceive the better how my heart andbrain did be contrary, when that I tell to you, now, how that I havebelief that my spirit did even then be subtly set to warn me. And, also,as all do know, it doth be easy to forget this warning and that ofexperience; by which saying, I do mean that, oft as I had come to knowthe dangers that did be alway about the fire-holes, yet when I did befar off from them, and Mine Own broken and a-shiver with the chill ofthe Land, the danger did seem but a small thing and afar off from mymind, and unreal; but the cold to be doubly real. Yet, when we did comeeven unto the fire-hole, then did come again all about my heart thetruth of those dangers that had seemed, but a while gone, so little.And, indeed, I do hope you perceive me in this thing, and how that Istrive alway to set unto you the utter truth, so that you shall go withme all the way, and lend me your nice understanding.
[DANGER][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][CONFLICT][TRANSITION]Now, when we were come down unto the fire-pit, I went this way and thatamong the rocks that did be in the bottom of the hollow, so that Ishould perceive whether there did be any living creature there hid, thatshould mayhap come out, unknown, to work us harm.But, indeed, I discovered nothing of any greatness; yet I saw threesnakes, and there were, beside, two scorpion-creatures, as I did namethem, that neither went backward from me, nor came against me; but didbide where I saw them, each in an hole of the rock.And because I had seen these things, I saw that we should not do wise tosleep nigh unto the fire-hole; for the creeping things did mortally likethe heat, and should be like to come upon us in our slumber. And,indeed, this did but uphold my caution, that we should be wellactioned, if that we chose some other part to our rest.
Yet, as you shall suppose, I said naught unto the Maid concerning thecreeping and the poisonous things; for I did mean that she have rest andhappiness the while that we did stay beside the fire-hole; andafterward, I should tell her, and so she be the more ready to see theproperness that we go elsewhere to our sleep. But, as you to understand,if that she not to see wisely and be still intent to the fire-hole, Ishould have her to obey; for surely she was Mine Own, and I did love herand did mean alway to have her to safety.Now, presently, the Maid was something warmed, and afterward, she sliptthe scrip from my shoulder, and so had food and drink very swift to myneed.And we sat together, and eat and drank; and the Maid very sweet andquiet, as she did begin to eat her second tablet; and, truly, I hadknowing that she did remember in all her body that I had whipt her. And,
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK][TRANSITION][ACTION][PERSPECTIVE]indeed, she did be utter mine.And oft as we did eat and drink, I lookt this way and that, so that nocreeping thing should come anigh to us; and presently, when we had madean end of our food, the Maid saw that I did look about, and she thenvery swift to catch some of mine unease, and to stare over her shoulder.And, indeed, in a little while she saw a snake go among the rocks; andshe then to be very eager that we find some place that should be securefrom creeping things. And we to begin then to look for such.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT]But in the end, we stayed in the hollow, for we found a little cave thatdid be in an upstanding rock of the hollow, and the upstanding rock was,mayhaps, an hundred good feet off from the fire; for the hollow was verygreat. And the cave did be a hole that was thrice my height up from thebottom rocks; and it was dry and sweet and with no creeping thing withinit, neither did there be any place to hide such therein.And when we were gotten into the hole, surely it did be very sweet andcozy; for the shine of the fire-hole did shine therein; and surely wehad felt it a very haven, but that there was ever the fear of the Landupon our hearts; and upon mine the more than upon the Maid; for, truly,Mine Own did seem to trust me utter; and to seem that she feared not anyevil monster, but to have surety that I had power to succour her in allways. And truly this trust had been very sweet unto my heart, if that Ihad lacked somewhat of my terror for the safe home-going of Mine Own.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][WITCH]And we slept that night as we had done before, and shared the cloak overus; for truly, the fire-hole made no great warmth unto us; yet was itless bitter in that part than in the darkness of the Land.And by that we had come unto sleep, it was twenty good hours since lastwe had slumber; and truly we did be very wearied; but yet came unto ourrest with our spirits set anxious to harken on danger the while that wedid sleep.And we slept seven hours, and did know suddenly of some matter that hadneed to waken us; and lo! in a moment I did wake, and the Maid in thesame instant of time; and there was a great screaming and crying out inthe night, that surely affrighted us both; yet did hurt our hearts themore; for it did be the utter cryings and terror of poor humans in thenight of that Land. Yet might I do naught; but only wait that I learn
[CONFLICT][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR][CONTEXT][PROBLEM][ACTION][CHARACTERIZATION][EMOTION][DANGER][FLASHBACK]more of the matter; for my duty was unto Mine Own, and I had no leave ofrashness any more.Yet, as you do suppose, I was all shaken to go downward of the rock, andafterward to climb out from the hollow, that I should give some helpunto they that did need help; but yet might I not leave the Maid.And immediately, there was a great roaring in one part of the night, andagain another roaring in another part of the night; and lo! in a momentthe roarings did be answered; and the roarings were the sounds of bigand husky voices; so that it did seem that we harked to men so big ashouses that did run and shout in the night.
[EMOTION][DANGER][CONFLICT][DEATH]And the Maid did begin to shake, and I put mine arm about her, and drewher backward into the hole so that she did be into the shadow; and sheto tremble like one that was broken in courage; for, truly, she hadheard those sounds oft in the night in all the long and dreadful monththat she had wandered.And, indeed, I was all shaken in my courage; for it did be the shoutingof giants that I heard; and you do know somewhat of the utter horror andterror that did be alway in the heart that did harken unto thosemonstrous voices, for you do know my tale.And there came in a moment, a dreadful screaming out in the night, andthe screaming did be the screaming of a young maid that doth be slainvery brutal. And my heart sickened, because of Mine Own; but my spiritdid swell with a strange and utter anger, as that it should burst mybody. And the Maid to my side broke into an utter sobbing.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][CONTEXT][FLASHBACK][ACTION][EXPOSITION][PERSPECTIVE]And the screaming of the maid afar off in the dark did end very sudden;but in a moment there did be other screamings in diverse places, and thehoarse shoutings of the great men and the thudding of mighty feet thatran this way and that, a-chase.And the cryings of the humans came nearer, and the thuddings of thegreat feet. And, in verity, in a little minute, it did seem unto me thatthe sounds did be right upon the hollow; and I crept forward, and peeredout. And I felt the night to be full of people running; and immediatelythere passed by the hollow a clustering of humans that ran ever, andscreamed and gasped and wept, panting, as they ran. And the shining of
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][DANGER]the fire-hole made them plain seen and clear, and they did be both menand women, and were but in rags or utter naked, and all torn by therocks and the bushes, and did seem, indeed, as that they had been wildthings that did go by so swift and lost.And mine heart troubled me with the pain and longing that it did know;so that I had gone in a moment after those people, but that I shouldleave Mine Own and put her to peril. And even while that I felt so utterin this thing, there came a great thudding of monstrous feet; and thereran four great men out of the night, and went past the hollow veryquick. And three did be dull coloured and seeming much haired andbrutish; but the other did be an horrid white, and livid-blotched; sothat it did seem to my spirit that there went by, a thing that did be avery man-monster filled of unwholesome life. And surely they did be gone
[DEATH][METAPHOR][MURDER]from out of the shine of the fire, in one moment, as we do say; andagain into the night to their dreadful chasing.And when the thudding of their feet had gone a long way off over theLand, I heard them bellowing, and afterward a far away screaming, thatdid have a death note in it; and I knew that those dreadful brute-mendid be taking the life from some poor wild humans; and afterward theredid be the silence again.And, surely, it did come to me with a fierce impatience of sorrow, thatthose people did be without spirit of courage; else had they turned themupon the giants, and slain them with their hands, even if that all haddied to compass that slaying; for, truly, they should all die anywise bythe giant-men; and they had died then with somewhat to comfort theirhate.Yet, as I do know, the Peoples of the Lesser Redoubt had long been bornof parents that were starved of the Earth-Current through anhundred-thousand years and more, and because of this thing, they didsurely lack somewhat in all ways. Yet was Naani otherwise; but this not
[CONFLICT][DANGER][EMOTION][PROBLEM][SURPRISE]to prove aught, save the rule, as we do say.Now, sudden, as I stooped very husht and troubled in the mouth of thelittle cave, I knew that Mine Own sobbed dryly in the back part of thecave. And I had gone to comfort her, but that in the same moment, I sawa naked maid run very swift over the edge of the hollow, and did lookover her shoulder, as she ran. And she came to the bottom, and crept inunder a ledge of rock that did be in that place; and she did seem utterworn, and gone of the spirit, and desperate. And I perceived in the same
[EMOTION][ACTION]instant why that she did go stealthy and swift in that fashion, and tocower, as for her very life; for there came a squat, haired man, sobroad as a bullock, who did come silent down into the hollow, lookingthis way and that, even as a wild beast doth peer, very sudden.And the Squat Man had instant knowing of the place where the maid didbe; and ran in upon her, with no sound.And I paused not; but leaped all the great way unto the bottom of thehollow, which did be, mayhaps, twenty good feet and more; for mine angerwas upon me, and I did mean that I save that one, though I did bepowerless to give succour unto those others.And I fell strong upon my feet, and had no harm of my limbs, for allthat the leap did be so high. And in that moment, before that I had time
[EMOTION][CONFLICT]to save the maid, the Squat Man ript her; and she cried out once with avery dreadful scream, and was suddenly dead in the hands of theBrute-Man.And my heart made my blood to burn with wrath in mine eyes, so that Ihad scarce power in that instant to see the Squat Man, as I ran uponhim. And the roar of the Diskos filled all the hollow, as I made it tospin, as that it did rage with an anger, and to be glut of the Man.And the Man came round upon me; and thought, mayhaps, to deal with me,as it had dealt with that poor maid, but not all thatwise, as you mustknow. And I swung the Diskos, and it did seem to sing and to cry eager
[CONFLICT][MONSTER]in my hands. And I smote at the Squat Man, even as it did leap silentupon me, as a tiger doth leap, making no sound. But I gat not home theblow; for the Man dropt sudden down upon the hands, and the blow wentoverwards. And the Brute-Man caught me by the legs, to rip me; and I cutquick with the Diskos, and it did have but one monstrous talon left untoit. And immediately, it cast me with the other, half across the hollow,
[MONSTER]and I fell with mine armour clanging mightily, and the Diskos did ringlike a bell.And by the graciousness of all good things, I was harmed not by thatmonster throw; but was to my feet in one instant, and had not loosed theDiskos from my hand. And the Beast-Man did be upon me with two quickboundings; and I stood up to the Man, and it made no sound or cry as itcame at me; and there did a great froth of brute anger and intent comefrom the mouth of it, and the teeth came down on each side of the mouth,very great and sharp. And I leaped and smote, so that my blow shouldcome the more speedy, and the Diskos took away the head and the shoulderof the Squat Man; and the dead thing knockt me backward, with the springthat it had made; but it harmed me not greatly. Yet afterward I did know
[EMOTION][DEATH][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][ACTION][HORROR]how sore and bruised I did be, in all my body and being. And I came backvery swift against the Man; but it did be truly dead and greatly horrid.And I went from the dead monster, and did go, all heart-shaken, unto thedead maid. And I took the torn body of the maid, very sorrowful, andcast it into the fire-hole.
[CONFLICT]And I turned me then that I should look unto the cave, that I shouldknow that all did be well with Mine Own, and whether she did have seenthe horror, or be gone into a swoon.And lo! Mine Own did run toward me; and she had in her hand mybelt-knife which I did give her, before that time, to be a weapon forher defence. And I perceived that she had come to be mine aid, if thatI did need such. And she did be utter pale, yet very steadfast and not
[EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][CONTEXT][MONSTER]seeming to tremble.And I made to take her from that place; but she went beyond me, andlookt at the monstrous bulk of the Squat Man; and was very silent. Andshe came back unto me; and still so silent. And she stood before me, andsaid no word; but my heart knew what she did be thinking; for I am notfoolish, to have lacked to know what did be in her heart; though mineeffort had not shown itself that way unto me, before that moment. And I
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][HORROR]had no pretending of modesty, but received with gladness and astrangeness of humbleness the honour that her eyes did give to me; for,indeed, she did be so, that she might not give word to her joy of me andher glad respecting, the which is so wondrous good unto the heart of allmen that do be loving of a dear and honest maid.And she said nothing, neither then nor afterward; but I did be honouredall my life after, when that I did anytime mind me of the way that MineOwn lookt upward at me in those moments.And afterward she did need and allow herself to come unto mine arms,that I hold her from the trembling of heart which did come to her, afterthat there did be no need for courage; for surely we had both seen avery dreadful thing, and there was a great horror upon us.And I climbed upward again to the little cave, and did help Naani; andwhen we were come there again, we did rest awhile. And presently we eat,
each of us, two of the tablets and drank some of the water, and indeedwe were both utter thirsty.And in about an hour, after that we had harked very keen a time, we camedownward again from the cave, and had our gear with us; and we came upout of the hollow, and set forward with a great caution unto the oldensea-bed. And we came there in two long hours; for we went very slow andwith constant harkings; for the fear of the monstrous men was upon us.But there came no harm anigh, neither did we perceive any disturbance inthe night of the Land.
And we went down an hour into the olden sea-bed, and did go now the moreswift; for our fear was something eased from us, because that we hadcome away from that place where we had perceived so great and dread anhunting. But yet had we all care about us; for the giants surely to beeverywhere in that Land; but yet, as I do think, they to roam more oftanigh to the fire-holes; for the humans did surely wander in such parts,that they have warmth of the fires.And after we had gone downward an hour into the sea-bed, we turnedsomewhat unto the South-West, and went for twelve great hours, and didnever be any huge space from the shore; for it did run that way, as youdo know. And I made to steer by the shinings of the Land, and withadvices from Mine Own.
And in the end of the twelfth hour, I did count our distance, makingthat we did walk somewhat of a certain speed; and by the tellings of theMaid, we did be surely come beyond the place of the Land where thePoison Gas did lie.And by this, it did be something after seventeen hours since we didsleep; and surely we did be very ready to have rest; for we had goneforward strongly, and with anxiousness; and truly my hurts did be comeupon me, so that my whole body did ache; for the quick fight had beenbitter, and I had been thrown very hard and brutal; and, indeed, it waswondrous that I had not been all smashed, only that the armour did saveme.And this doth show truly how hard and strong I did be; and Naani didspeak upon this, and was oft a-wonder, and at that time did beg me thatI make some rest to cure my hurts; for she had not conceived that a mandid grow so strong and hardy; and, in verity, the men of the LesserRedoubt did be soft-made and lacking of grimness, as I did perceive,both through my reason and from her tellings; for they did lack thestrong life that doth breed where is the beat of the Earth-Current, aswe to have in the Mighty Pyramid. And this thing I have said somewisebefore this time.
[EMOTION]And because that we did be so wearied, I said unto Naani that we find aplace for our slumber, and she very willing, as I have shown, and tocounsel me likewise.Yet did we search about in that gloom for a great hour more, and foundno cave or hole to give us a safe refuge for our sleep.And when that we could not find such, I told Naani that we should putthe boulders together, somewhat, and so have them about us, that we begreatly hid; and, in truth, even as I began to tell her my plan, she didhave the same words in her mouth, so that we caught our little fingers,there in the dark of that grim Land in the end of the world, even as sheand I had done oft in the early years, before that eternity, when thatshe did be Mirdath the Beautiful. And we did both be silent, and afterthat we had wished very solemn and earnest, we said each a name; even aslad and maid shall do in this age; and so to laughter and kist one theother. And truly, the world doth seem not to alter in the heart, as you
[CONFLICT][ACTION][SETTING]shall think. And this was what I did find.And we set-to, and gathered together the boulders which did be veryplentiful in that part. And she carry those that did be thin and flat,and I to roll those that did be great and round. And I made a place that
[EMOTION]did be long and narrow; and afterward, I set the flat stones round thesides, that there be no little hole by which any creeping thing shouldcome inward to sting us in our sleep.And afterward we gat inside; and surely it did be very cozy, as we dosay; but yet not so secure as I did wish, only that I could not shift toplan aught better. And, indeed, it should keep off from us any smallthing, and should be like to save us from any monstrous Brute treadingupon us; but otherwise, it did be but a poor affair.Now we eat two of the tablets, each, and drank some of the water, evenas we had done in the sixth and the twelfth hours; and afterward weshared the cloak for our slumber; and we kist very sedate and loving,and charged our spirits that we wake if that any horrid thing shouldcome anigh to us in our sleep; and afterward we did be gone very swiftto slumbering, and suffered no harm.
And I waked seven hours after, and surely I did ache very bitter, as Idid move my body; for the bruisings did be gotten hold of me.And I slipt away from the Maid, very gentle; for I had mind that shesleep a while more, as I did mean that we make a great journey that day.And after I had harked a while, and perceived that there was no evilthing anigh, I went outward of the stones. And I walked to and fore andmoved mine arms, that I be eased somewhat of the stiffness and ache; butsurely it did seem that many hours must go ere I should make any speedof travel; for I did be all clumsy and slow and nigh to groan with thepain of going and aught that I did.
[DANGER][EMOTION][ACTION][PROBLEM][CONFLICT]And I minded me that I should do somewhat to ease this thing, lest thatI cause us both to come to an harm by staying over-long in that Land.And I went back into the stones, and gat an ointment from the pouch,that I did carry. And surely the Maid did yet sleep. And I went outwardof the stones, again; and stript off the armour, and all my garments;and I rubbed my body with the ointment, and surely the pain did be sothat I groaned at this time and that; but yet must I rub good and strongso that I die not of the cold of the Land; and beside I was greatlyanxious to cure myself.
[EMOTION][WITCH]And sudden, as I did rub very strong and savage, and heeding so well asI might that I groan not, the Maid did speak close beside me. And,indeed, she could see me but dimly, and had waked sudden to hear mygroaning, and I was not to her side. And immediately she had thoughtthat some evil thing harmed me, and was come in an instant that she bewith me.And she cared not that I did be naked; but was utter in anger that Istrove to do this thing alone, and with none to aid me, and alluncovered to the chill of the Land. And she ran back into the stones,
and brought the cloak and put it about me; and was so angered that shestampt, and had no impudence, but rather as that she did be minded tohave tears.And she sent me back into the sheltering of the stones, and gatheredmine armour, and brought these things after me. But the Diskos I took inmy hand. And she took the pot of the ointment from me, and made me tolie, and she rubbed me very strong and tender, and kept me warm withthe cloak; and surely she was a wise and lovely Maid, and utter MineOwn.
And in the end, she askt me how I was, and I said that I did bedifferent; and she hurried me that I be clothed very quick; for she didbe sore afraid that I should come to a chill.And when I was gotten again into mine armour, she came to me, and showedme where I did lack wisdom, and spoke very straitly and gentle andserious; and afterward kist me, and gave me my tablets, and to sitbeside me. And we eat and drank; and I with a new lovingness unto MineOwn; and she somewhat as that she did mother me; but when I put mine armabout her, she did be only a maid. And we did be thus, with but littletalk and a great content.
[DANGER][EMOTION][HORROR]And afterward, we gat our gear together, and went from that littlerefuge that we had made; and in a while we did go upward out of theolden sea-bed.And when we were come again to the top of the shore, the which we did intwo good hours, I lookt over the Land, a time, with Mine Own anigh tome. And I perceived that the Great Red Fire-Pit of the Giants did be nomighty way off unto the South and West; and surely in a little moment,we saw that there went monstrous figures against the shine of the mightyfire-pit; and we stoopt unto the earth; for it did seem that the lightdid be like to show us standing there, though truly we did be afar off,as you perceive. Yet, mayhaps, you do share with us the utter horror anddistress that those horrid Men did cast about the heart, and so have akindly understanding of our fear.
And over all the Land, in this place and that, there did be the smallshining of little fire-holes and pits, that did be alway red, save inthat part where the Poison Gas did lie, the which we had now come safepast.And beyond the fire-holes, was the great Shine, that lay from the Westunto the North of all that Land; and, in verity, we did need that westeer so that we come not anigh to it, neither unto the Great RedFire-Pit of the Giants; neither unto the low volcanoes, which werebeyond the Great Red Fire-Pit, as you do know, and someways unto theMouth of the Upward Gorge.And the way of our journey was between the West and the South-West ofthat Land; and to be made with cunning and wisdom, that we come clear ofall unseemly danger unto Mine Own. And I askt her concerning this thingand that of the Land; and surely she told me so much of terror that Iwas half in a wonder that ever I did live in the end to come unto her.
And it was because of the things that she set out to me, that Iperceived how we must come nowise anigh to the low volcanoes that wereupon this side of the mouth of the Upward Gorge; for it had been knownalway in the Lesser Redoubt that there went very horrid men in thatpart that did be called wolf-men; but whether there did be any suchthing in that age, she had no knowing; for she told me the things thatdid be set down in the Records and the Histories; and truly no man ofthe Lesser Redoubt had found heart in a thousand great years to make ajourneying through the Land, for the desire of glad and dreadfuladventuring, such as our young men did be oft set to; though it was notall such that went.And because there did be no adventuring for so monstrous a space ofyears, there was no certain new knowledge of the Land of that age. Andthis thing is plain to you, and needing not of many words, which do soirk me.And Naani set out to me how that The Shine was conceived to be a landwhere Evil did live for ever, and whence came all those Forces of Evilthat did work upon the Lesser Refuge. And afterward, she did quiet; so
that presently I perceived that she did weep to herself, because thather memory was all new-stirred by my questionings. And I took her verygentle into mine arms, as we did be there kneeled upon the earth.And after that time, I askt her no question, save as it did be needfulto our health and life; yet oft did she tell me this thing and that ofher knowledge, to be for mine help and guiding.Now we went forward, going a space toward the North-West, so that wecome the more clear of the place where did be the Great Red Fire-Pit ofthe Giants. And we journeyed with a care alway that we show not
[TRANSITION]ourselves over-plain unto the light that shone over the Land from thegreat Pit; and oft we did creep a while over this stark place and that;and went nimbly amid the bushes that grew oft in great parts.And we made six hours this way, and did then have pause, that we eat anddrink; and truly it was nine hours since first I did wake; yet had wemade no pausing, because that we were so set to our journeying to comeclear of the place where did be the Giants.And after that we had eat and drunk, we went onward again; and made nowunto the South-West; for we did heed that we go no more unto theNorth-West, because that should bring us over-near to The Shine.And in the fourteenth hour of that day's travel, we came to a part wherethe Land dipt downward into a broad valley; and surely it did be verydark down there, and did be seeming shallow, yet truly of a greatdeepness; but we went that way, because that it did be a weary longjourney to go around the place where the valley did be.
[TRANSITION]And the Valley had a different darkness from the gloom that went alwayin the olden sea-bed; for the gloom of the sea-bed did be ever of agreyness; but the gloom of this Valley had a greater dark within it; yetdid the air seem more clear.And we went downward three hours into the Valley, and stopt then thatwe eat and drink; and truly I had not paused then; but that Mine Own didinsist; for our methods did be like, else, to go all adrift, and we tobe lacking of proper strength.And this was wisdom of the Maid; but I to be a little irked-like andrestless; and this mayhap because that my blood did itch me, becausethat it did be so full of the poison of my bruises.And it was gone now of seventeen hours since last we did sleep; but yetdid we be ready to go forward, that we come so quick as maybe out of thedark of that Valley; for there did seem nowheres any fire-hole to make alight; only that in this place and that, there did be a little blueshining, as that there burned a strange gas in this part or that.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][TRANSITION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][DANGER]Now, in two hours after the time that we did eat, we stopt, both of us,very sudden; for there did be some vague and curious sound in the night.And we went very swift to the earth, that we be hid, and harked. But didhear nothing.And in a while, we to go onward again; yet there did be an unease uponour spirits; for our spirits did perceive something afar off in thenight; but yet had we no surety in this matter.
[SURPRISE][METAPHOR]And we went forward through a great hour more; and did pass in thattime, two places where the blue-shining did be; and truly it seemed asthat a low gas hung to the earth in this part and that, and made a slowburning, having neither noise nor spurtings; but slow, as that it didsmoulder and be all to shine and luminous. And oft there did be a strongsmelling of a bitter gas, very horrid in the throat.And in the end of another hour, while that we were a space off from oneof those gas-shinings, there went past us at a distance, as it did seempeople, running in the night; as that they did be lost spirits; yet witha rustling very soft; so that they did be like to be barefoot.And I thought mayhap that these did be some of the Peoples of the LesserPyramid; yet did they be only as that shadows went among theblue-shinings. And I pondered a moment, whether that I send my voice
[DANGER][EMOTION][CONFLICT]over the Valley, to question what they did be; but yet had caution, andharked through the utter silence of the night; for I had no surety ofaught.And, surely, in that moment that we harked very keen, there did be asound afar off in the night of the Land; and it was as that we had heardthe sound before; and, in verity, our spirits had perceived the sound,those two hours back; and now our bodies did wot, and perceived that wehad known it subtly before that moment. And the sound was as thatsomething went spinning in the night.And a very great terror came upon the Maid; for she did know the sound;and the sound was that which did show that one of the great Evil Forcesof the Land did approach; and the sound had been known alway in theLesser Refuge to show this thing. And, indeed, mine own spirit had been
[DANGER][DEATH][EMOTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][WEAPON][SURPRISE][HORROR]half to know that a Power of Evil did come through the night; but yetwas the assurance very terrible; for how should I protect Mine Own.And the spinning came toward us, and was presently in the Valley; and itcame swiftly across the dark of the Valley. And my heart was all brokenwithin me, because that there had been happiness with us, but a littletime gone; and now there did be our death anigh.And Mine Own gave me the knife that I had given to her; meaning that Islay her, in the last moment; for she did heed even in that moment thatshe be not gashed horridly by the terror of the Diskos. And I took the
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][DANGER][PROBLEM]knife. And I kist not Mine Own; but stood there, very shaken anddesperate, and gript her fast unto me, scarce heeding the hardness of mygripe; and alway I lookt unto the way of the coming of the Sound. Andpresently did unbare my wrist where the Capsule did be.And the sound of the thing Spinning came anigh, across the Valley; andmy heart did dull and my spirit go black with my desperateness, becausethat this thing must be, and because that I could nowhere see hope thatI should save Mine Own.
[EMOTION][DEATH][CONFLICT][SURPRISE]And, of a sudden, the Maid put up her arms, and pulled me downward, andkist me once on the lips; but I wot not whether I kist her; for I didburn with despair and was all adrift in my being. Yet was there a sharpcomfort that mine own dying did be so nigh.And the Maid stood gently against me; so that she did be convenient untomy hand. And afterward I remembered this thing; and do you pray that yoube never to have such a matter on your hearts! But, indeed, there was a
[DANGER][CONFLICT][HORROR]wonder in this thing, beside the horror; so that my memory doth be alwayknowing of this wonder; and mayhap you do see with me, and love Mine Ownalso in your hearts. And in the moment that the Maid stood thus, as Ihave told, I perceived sudden that there did be a little glowing in thenight, and the glowing was pale and horrid. And there was no more anysound of the Spinning; only there did be, as it were, the trunk of agreat tree, that did show in the glowing; and the trunk of the tree cametoward us across the darkness.And I turned the Maid from the Tree, and she did flutter a little in myhands, as I did know, scarce-knowing; for she perceived that she did begoing to die in that moment. And I had my body thus between the Evil
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT]Thing and the Maid. And lo! the Tree came no more anigh to us; but wentbackward, and the pale glowing did fade, and the Tree no more to beseen.And I cried unto the Maid, very husky, that we did live; for that theEvil Power was gone off from us; but she answered not, and did be heavyagainst me. And I held her, and lookt alway about us, lest the Tree come
[EMOTION]in upon the other side.And, as I lookt this way and that, I saw naught; and afterward, in amoment, I searched the night above, lest that the Thing come fromabove. And, behold, I saw that there abode over us a clear light, as itwere a clear burning Circle, above us in the night. And my heart didleap with an holy joy and an utter great thankfulness; and I was no morein fear of the Tree; for, in verity, there fought for our souls one ofthose sweet Powers of Goodness, that did strive ever to stand betweenthe Forces of Evil and the spirit of man; and this matter have I shownto you, before this time.
[PERSPECTIVE][SURPRISE][METAPHOR][PROBLEM]And concerning this holy Defense, I have thought that it should not,mayhap, to have had so strong a power to save us, if that we had shownan over-weakness and fear, but because that we did rather stand so wellas we might to make battle of escape from so dire a Destruction.And, surely, this doth seem but a sane thinking unto me; but yet withoutproof, and to be said to you, only as the shapings of my thoughts. Andthis the chief end of that happening, that the holy Circle did trulydeliver us, and burned through twelve great hours above us; and by this,do I know that the Evil Power hovered anigh, to destroy us, all thatwhile; for, indeed, it doth not be proper of reason to suppose that suchan utter wondrous thing did be needlessly over us, save to be a Shieldof Great and Lovely Force against a waiting Evil Thing. And surely youdo see thiswise with me?
[EMOTION]And, truly, so soon as my Spirit and Reason perceived that we did be nomore to suffer from the Evil Thing, I remembered that I did know thatMine Own had swooned. And, in verity, you shall mind how that she didface her death so utter sweet and brave, and had given no cry, but madequietly to help me in that dreadful moment, and did stand brave andgentle to the stroke. And so fell into a swoon, as you have seen,because that she did suffer an hundred deaths as she did stand so brave,waiting to be slain, for the blow did be so long delayed, yet to come inany moment.And I gat her to come-to unto her life again, and I set the lovely talevery swift to ease her, and surely with love and warmth, and kist herwith a great joy. And I showed how I did honour her for her good
[EMOTION][GHOST]courage.And she to weep a little, with the ease come so sudden upon her; andafterward to kiss me upon the lips an hundred times, and to need thatshe be very safe in mine arms, because that I had meant that I do sodread an office to her. And surely I do wonder whether you perceive allthat did be then in her heart.And the holy light that did be over us, she did watch with a sweetnessof awe; and rest did come more great upon her in the heart, as she didlearn how sure was the seeming of that Lovely Power to deliver us.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][HORROR]And, presently, we made forward again in the Valley. And did gosteadfast, and newly-loving each to the other, and so through twelvegreat and body-weary hours; but our hearts could never be done singingwithin us, nor our hands to cease from the hands of the other, becausethat we did so crave each unto the beloved.And in the ninth hour, a monstrous way off in the dark of the Valley,there did seem as that there went a far and dreadful screaming in thenight. And it did be as that our spirits perceived the sound ofsomething Spinning in the night; yet faint and a great way off; but yethad we no surety that we did truly hear the sound of the Spinning; onlywe did be so shaken in the heart, for truly there was some horror doneunto humans, downward in the mighty darkness of the Valley. And to think
[EMOTION][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][DANGER][TRANSITION]upon the sound of the Spinning, was to be in a shaking trouble of thespirit; and to bless the quiet and holy light that went above us in allthat time; and to ache only that it should stay to be to our protecting.And surely it did be plain that there were the signs of great Forces inthat Land.And three hours after that time when we did hear the far-off screaming,we were come up over the edge of the Valley, and did be once more untosuch light as did be general in the Land; and truly it did seem awondrous lightness, after so utter a dark.And we did be all exhaust, and Mine Own drew her feet so weary that itwas as that she must go no more, until we did rest; for indeed it wasthree and thirty hours since last that we had slept; and a bittertrouble and work there had been in that space, as you do know.
[SURPRISE]Now we had eat some of the tablets a few hours back, as we did walk, andhad drunk some of the water; but had made no rest; for we did crave onlythat we come free of that Valley. And now it was needful that we rest,if but a little time.And I minded that we find some place where I should have a hot pool,that I be able to bathe Naani's feet. And, surely, we came in a while toa hollow-place, and there did be two dull-burning fire-holes in thisplace, and a hot-bubbling spring, the which did seem to be a rare thingin that Land; so that we were the more fortunate to perceive it.
[RELIEF][WITCH]And I made Mine Own to sit, with her feet in the hot-spring; for it wasnot over-hot, and did seem pretty natural to my taste, as I did prove inthe first. And also I did search about the hollow, lest there be anyharmful creature near-by; and this you will have truly supposed, becauseyou do know the methods of my journeying. But yet did I not have so muchcare as did be proper; for I was so dull in the mind, by reason of myweariness; but, indeed, there came naught to work us any harm; and so wecame to no suffering, through mine aches and dullness.And I sat beside the Maid, and made her to eat a tablet, and saw thatthe cloak did be nice about her, and her head to rest against my knee,and I laid the palm of my hand to be as a pillow, because of the armour,to ease the hardness.
[ACTION][TRANSITION]And I eat with the Maid, and we both drank after; and so there cameback somewhat of our strength. Then I took the Maid's little feet, andrubbed a portion of the ointment from the pot all about them, verygentle and constant; and so did they be new-rested and eased; and shepresently fit again to the journey; for I was strong set that we goquickly hence out of that Land, and stay no more there to sleep, lest wecome unto Destruction.And when we had rested an hour, I put the shoes again upon the Maid, andmade them secure; and so gat my gear about me, and made to the journey.And lo! as we did leave the hollow, I lookt upward unto the Holy Light;
[CONFLICT][PERSPECTIVE][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][EMOTION]and behold it was gone from us, and by this thing I supposed that we hadcome free of instant danger; but yet did there be to me a seeming ofnakedness and unprotection, as you must perceive.And because that the Light was vanished, I was the more set that we comespeedy out of the Land. And we went forward at a strong speed, and hadthe Great Red Fire-Pit of the Giants to our rear unto the left, and amighty way off in the night; but yet I did wish it the further. Andbefore us, was a small ridging up of the dark Land, as I did judge,because that our view of the lights and the shinings was bounded; and toour left at a great way the low volcanoes, and somewhat to our right,across all that part of the Land went the cold and horrid glare of theShine.
[EMOTION][DANGER][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK][ACTION][PROBLEM][HORROR]Now, in a little while, I felt that the ground did be sloped upwardbefore us a little, and by this thing I saw that I had known aright, forthat there did be a ridge that hid the Land somewise over unto the partwhere I lookt to find the mouth of the Upward Gorge. And we went up thisslope at a strong pace, because that I was so eager that I find where wedid be in nearness unto the mouth of the Upward Gorge.And surely, I was something forgetful, in mine eagerness, and camesomewhat ahead of Mine Own, who did make to hide from me that she didbegin to lag, because that her new strength was near gone from her.And sudden there did be a very dreadful cry, to my back; and I cameround in one instant, so quick as a light doth flash; for it was thevoice of Mine Own, and all my being did suddenly burn with fear thatkindled through me in a moment of thought.
[DANGER][CONFLICT][WEAPON][PROBLEM]And lo! Mine Own did struggle terribly with a yellow thing which Iperceived to be a man with four arms; and the Man had two arms about theMaid, and with two did make to choke her unto death; for she cried outno more.And I came unto the Man with a quick leaping, and stopt not to pluck theDiskos from my hip; and surely I did be very strong, and mine anger andrage to make me monstrous; for I caught the two upper arms of the Man,and brought them backward in an instant, so fierce and savage, and sowrencht upon them, that I brake them in the shoulders of the Man.And the Man roared and shriekt, even as a wild and dreadful Beast shouldcry out, and came round upon me with the two lower arms. And surely itwas a mighty and brutish thing, and so broad and bulkt as an ox, and thelower arms were huge and greatly haired, and the fingers of the handsdid have the nails grown into horrid talons, as that they should gripvery bitter.
[HORROR]And it caught me by the thighs, to rip me upward, as I did fear; but yetthis did not be the intent of the Man; for in a moment it caught meround the body; and on the instant, I gat the Man by the great throat,and the throat did be haired, and so great as the neck of a bull. And Istrove with mine armoured hands that I choke the Man, and surely I madeit to suffer great trouble; yet, I could not harm it in the life.And so I did be an horrid minute, and fought with the Beast, with nomore than the strength of my body; and it was as that an human went withhis hands to slay a monster so strong as an horse. And the breath of theMan-Beast came at me, and did sicken me; and I held the face off fromme; for I had died with horror, if that it had come more anigh; andsurely the mouth of the Man was small and shaped so that I knew that itdid never eat of aught that it did slay; but to drink as a vampire; andin truth, I did mean that I chop the Man to pieces, if that I havechance to the Diskos.
[CONFLICT][DEATH][HORROR]And I did sway this way and that, as we did struggle; and surely it wasas that the Man had never made to use the lower arms, save to hold untoprey, the while that it did use the upper arms to strangle, as I dothink. For all that weary minute of the fight, the Man made not to loosefrom me, that it should tear my hands from their grip to the throat; butmade vain waggings with the arms that I brake, as that it would usethese to the attack; but surely they had no more power to do hurt.And sudden, it put forth an utter power about my body, so that minearmour did be like to crack; and truly I had died in a moment; but forthe strongness of the armour. And the man hugged me thus for an horridtime, the while that I did hold off from me the brutish face, and griptvery savage into the haired throat.
[TRANSITION][CONFLICT][ACTION][SURPRISE][DANGER][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][WEAPON][FLASHBACK][MONSTER]And lo! the creature did work slow in the brain, and in the end loostfrom me, abrupt, and went back with a leap, so that my hands did be riptfrom the throat of the Beast. And in one instant it did be back unto me,and gave me no moment to free the Diskos. But I made anew to fight, andshaped as I had learned in the Exercises of mine Upbringing; for truly Ihad been alway deep in practice of such matters. And I slipt from the
[ACTION][CONFLICT]great hands of the Man, as it did try to take me by the head; and I hitthe Man with mine armoured fist, and put a great power and skill to theblow. And I went instant to the side with a swift stepping, and evadedthe Man, and I smote the Man again, and took him very savage in theneck; but all the while grown very cold and brutal and cruel; for I wasset to the slaying. And the Man-Beast came round on me; and lo! I sliptthe gripe of the great hands, and my body and my legs and mine arms didwork together unto that last blow; so that I did hit so hard as a greathammer. And I gat the Beast in the throat, and the Beast went backward
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][CONFLICT][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][PROBLEM][MONSTER]to the earth, even as it did think to hold me.And lo! in a moment, I was free, and I pluckt forth the Diskos from myhip. And the Yellow Beast-Man grunted upon the ground; and it rose upagain to come at me; and it stood and did grunt, and did seem as that itwas gone mazed; for it did make other sounds, and an horrid screeching,so that truly, by the way of it, I conceived that it cried out unknownand half-shapen words at me. And in a moment, it came again at me; but I
[EMOTION][DEATH][DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][MONSTER]cut the head from the Beast-Man, that was in verity an horrid monster,and the Man died, and was quiet upon the earth.And truly, in that moment, the distress of mine efforts and mine uttertiredness and the ache of the bruises took me; so that I do surely thinkI rockt as I stood; but yet was my head strong to think and my heart setin anxiousness; for I wotted not how great an hurt had been done uponMine Own.And I ran to her, and came to where she did be upon the ground; andsurely she was all huddled, and had her hands very piteous to herthroat, that did be so pretty. And it did shake me in that moment thatshe was truly slain; for she was gone so utter still and as that she didbe broken unto death.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]And I took her hands from her throat, and surely it did be a littletorn; yet not to be much, or so that it should loose her of her dearlife. And I strove that I steady the trembling of my hands; and I gatfree of mine armoured gloves; and made that I feel whether her throatdid be deadly hurt; and, in verity, it seemed not so; only that my handsdid so shake, because that I was so frightened for Mine Own, and becausethat I was but new come from the battle; and because of this, I had notpower of touch to assure me.I made then that I quieten my breath, which did yet come very full andlaboured; and I put mine ear above the heart of the Maid, and lo! herheart did beat, and the horridness of my fear went from me in a moment.
[EMOTION]And I had the scrip from my back very speedy, and some of the water tofizz, and I dashed the water upon her face and upon her throat; andsurely there did be a little quivering and an answering of her body.And I strove with her for a while more; and she came unto her lifeagain; and in the first, she was all a-lack, as you may think; andimmediately she began that she remembered, and she then to shake.And I told her how that the Four-Armed Man was surely dead and couldharm her no more; and she then to weep, because that she had been putto such shock and horror, and held by so brutish a thing. But I took herinto mine arms, and so she did come presently to an ease; and Iperceived in all my being that she was as a little ship that doth lie inharbour; for she did cling and nestle unto me; and did be safe with mein all her heart and body and belief. And surely she was Mine Own, and I
[ACTION][VAMPIRE]to have glory in that knowing.And presently, I put her from mine arms, to lie; yet so that she mightnot perceive the body of the Yellow Beast-Man. And I made clean theDiskos, from her sight, and afterward I put on the scrip; and I took theMaid to mine arms again, and had the Diskos in my hand beside her.And she made protest that she should truly walk; for that I was alla-weary, and she come to her strength again. And, indeed, I carried her
a certain way, and did then put her down to her feet; and truly herknees did so tremble that she had not stood, let be to walk! And Icaught her up again; and I kist her, and I told her that I did be surelyher Master, in verity, and she mine own Baby-Slave. And truly you shallnot laugh upon me; for I was so human as any; and a man doth talk thisway with his maid.And she did be quiet and sweet and to obey wisely; for she was gone veryweak. And thiswise we did go; and I to say loving words, in the first;
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]but afterward I did heed more of my going, now that she was somethingeased and at rest within mine arms. And I did peer everywhere about,lest that some other evil thing come outward of the bushes, to have atus ere I did ware. And, truly, the bushes grew here and there in thatplace, very plentiful, in great dumpings.And presently I was come to the top part of the ridge; and lo! a greatgladness took me, and some amazement; for there did be the lights thatdid be in the mouth of the Upward Gorge, and they did show me that I wascome anigh to that place. Yet had I feared that we were surely a dozen
great miles off; and now I to learn that we did be scarce of two ormaybe three, as I did judge.And I told this thing to the Maid; and she rejoiced in mine arms, with adeep and quiet thankfulness. And I set forward then at so good a pace asI might; and I was come into the mouth-part of the Upward Gorge in aboutan hour; and surely I did be very weary, for it was beyond six andthirty hours that we had gone since last we did sleep; and there hadbeen sore labour and terror to our share in that time, as I have told.And I turned in the mouth of the Gorge, and told Mine Own, very gentle,that we did take our last look upon that Land. And she askt that I put
[SURPRISE]her down to her feet; and I put her down. And therewith we stood in thatplace, and mine arm about her; and so did I support the Maid, the whilethat she lookt silent over the dark of the Land.And presently she askt me in a very husht voice, whether that I knewwhere the Lesser Pyramid did be in all that Darkness; for she was alladrift of her bearings, and was as a stranger, because that she hadnever lookt upon the Land from that place, before then. And I showed herwhere I thought the Pyramid to stand hid in the everlasting night; andshe nodded, very quiet, as that she did think thatwise, also.
[EMOTION][DEATH]And so a time did pass, and I knew that Naani said good-bye forever untoall that she had known of the world in all her life; and she did bewhispering a goodbye in her soul unto her Dead.And I was very husht, and deeply sorrowful for the Maid, and didunderstand; for in verity, there should no other human look upon thatLand of terror through all the quiet of eternity; and the Maid did loseall her young life into that blackness, and the Father that was herFather; and the grave of her Mother; and the friends of all her years.And there went death in the Land, even then, after those that did live.And Mine Own shook a little within mine arm; so that I knew she strovethat she be brave, to weep not; but afterward, she made not to ceasefrom her tears; and truly I was there, to be her understanding; and shedid be sweet and natural ever with me; for she was Mine Own, and did behourly the more so.
And presently, I moved a little, to sign that we go downward of theGorge; and she stayed me one moment, that she look once more over allthat Land; and afterward, she submitted, and turned with me, and didbreak into very bitter sobbing as she did go stumbling beside me; forthe sorrow of memory did fill her; and she was truly a very lonesomeMaid in that moment, and had come through much dreadfulness.And in a minute, I stoopt and lifted her; and she wept in mine armsagainst mine armour; and I very silent and tender with her; and carriedher downward of the Gorge for a great hour more. And presently she wasgrown calm, and I knew that she slept in mine arms.And in thiswise we made farewell of that dark Land, and left it untoEternity.XIIDOWNWARD OF THE GORGENow I carried the Maid an hour downward of the Gorge, as I did say; andI was then grown so weary that I near fell, as I walked, and stumbledeverywhile, because that I had lost somewhat of guiding in my feet, thewhich did show mine utter alackness.
[EMOTION][DANGER][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][TRANSITION]And I saw that I must come very swift to a place for slumber, or that Idid be like to fall headlong with the Maid; for I nigh slept as I walkt.And I began that I give attention to the sides of the Gorge; and surelyI had gone that hour all in a dream; for I was fresh-waked, as it were,in that I did give my will to perceive aught; and when I did come tohave power to attend, I knew that I had gone, even as a sleep-walker;for the Gorge did seem a fresh matter unto me, and as that I had comeawake sudden to find myself a-walk in that strange and narrow place.And presently, I saw somewhat where I did be; for I minded the memory ofmine outward journey, and truly I have a good power to know and remembera way that I have gone. And I saw that there was a great and ruddyfire-hole anigh to me; and I was all sure that I had perceived certaincaves in the wall of the Gorge, near to that fire, as I past it on mineupward way; and I had been given a mighty longing of heart at that time,that it be given to me that I should bring safe Mine Own out of theperil that beset her, and have her unto just such a place for herslumber, on the way of our journey backward.
[EMOTION][METAPHOR][FLASHBACK][SURPRISE][CHARACTERIZATION][PERSPECTIVE][CHARACTER][CONFLICT][PLOT][RELIEF][TRANSITION]And surely I tell you this thing as a child in pleasure; for, truly, itwas a wondrous happy matter that my desiring should be like to have atrue ending; as, indeed, it did seem was truly to be, if that my memoryhad set me aright.And I went onward somewhat; and lo! I to be right, for the little cavesdid be there, a little past the great fire-hole; and there were seven ofthem in the left side of the great cliff of the Gorge; and one did be asthat it were very cozy and a place of sure safety, if that we could winunto it.And truly, as I did conceive, we had come safe from the Evil Forces ofthat Land; but yet did I mind that there was no surety in this thing;and neither did I know but that some Monster should come downward of theGorge, out of that Land; and so work our deaths, as we did sleep; ifthat we have no sure place for our slumber. And, indeed, I had wished
[EMOTION][DANGER][WITCH]that we were come a greater way downward of the Gorge, but this mightnot be; for I was all adrift with weariness. And truly, if that we gatupward to the top-most cave, there did be few Monsters that should havepower to come at us, ere we be warned of their coming. And afterwardthey should be like to come upward against the Diskos; and this shouldbe indeed a thing difficult, as you shall conceive.Now it did be needful that I wake the Maid, and I kist her, as she didbe in mine arms; and surely that dear One did kiss back again in hersleep, and was yet asleep. And truly I did love her with all my being;
[EMOTION]and I kist her again, and shook her very gentle, and so had her towakefulness, and told how we did be come to a place fit for our slumber.And she to look about, very sleepy, as I set her to her feet; and thento upbraid herself that she did over to slumber, the while that I didlabour with her carrying. And, in verity, I kist her again, as she didstand making to steady herself, and looking so pretty with the sleepthat did lie yet in her eyes. And she to kiss me very dear and all mine;and even then scarce proper come to wakefulness; and did say withsomething of a little dear abandon, that she did love me utter andforever.
And afterward, I climbed to the topmost of the caves, and told Mine Ownthe while that she walk up and down a little; so that she come to a fullawakedness; and this I was careful to, because that she should have aneed of all her powers that she come safe upward unto the cave.And when I was come to the cave, lo! it did be so sweet and dry, as didmake glad my heart. And there did be a warmth in the cave, as that therewent a fire somewhere through the rocks anigh. And the light from the
[ACTION][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE]fire-hole did make a reflection inward, and so this did seem a placesafe, and fit to our slumbering.And I came downward unto Naani, calling that the cave was very properfor our use; and presently I gave her mine aid to the climbing, and sowe came in the end safe into the cave; and truly we did feel very safeand happy.Yet, before we did sleep, I set free the scrip and the pouch, and tookthe straps and went downward again into the Gorge; and I gat a goodboulder, so heavy as I might carry, and strapt it to my back, and cameupward again to the cave, and the Maid very grave and anxious, lest thatI slip to my hurt. And when I was come to the cave again, I set theboulder in the mouth of the cave, and did balance it so light upon theedge, that a touch should send it rolling downward.
[PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR][EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONTEXT][PROBLEM][CHARACTERIZATION][CONFLICT]And by this devising, I conceived that any Beast or Monstrous thing thatshould climb upward whilst that we slept, should be like to set therock adrift, and mayhaps the rock to work an harm to such, but thechief end to be that I should be swiftly waked by the noise.And then I did turn that we go to our slumber; and lo! the Maid hadspread the cloak upon the rock, that we should sleep upon it; for trulythere did be no need that we have it now to our covering, because thatthe cave did be so warm as I have told before.And surely, there did be no cause either that I should have the cloakfor a bed; for how should I perceive any softness from the cloak,through all the sternness of mine armour; but yet did I see that theMaid had made a couch that should be for the two of us, and did be sosweet and natural, and to lie by me; but yet to preserve her sweetmodesty, and to do the thing with no thought, save that it was naturalto our hearts; and that she did long alway to be anigh to me; but yet,mayhaps, scarce full conscious that her heart did prompt her in thisthing.
And, in verity, I loved her very dear.And surely, Naani showed me the where that I should lie upon my side;and when I had obeyed, she kneeled, and kist me on the lips, very soberand loving; and she lay down then upon the cloak beside me; and truly wehad both gone to sleep in one little minute, as I do think.Now I did be waked twelve great hours after, by the fizzing of thewater; and lo! when I lookt, the Maid was not beside me; but did makeready our simple eating and drinking. And she laughed at me, very sweet
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONTEXT]and tender, because that she loved me so, and did be so glad to have meawake to her; and she came over to me, and kist me, very bright andloving upon the lips.And after that she had kist me, she kneeled beside me, and lookt at me,very dear and tender; so that I knew in a moment that she had waked awhile gone, and watched me, somewise motherlike, as I did sleep. But howI knew this thing, I am not sure, save that my spirit did know, or thather thoughts did have tongues unto mine.And truly I needed that I be so loved, and all of you to say like withme; and I put up mine arms to her, as I did yet lie; and she not to denyme, but came into mine arms, and did snuggle there so sweet and happyand gladly, and with so true a delight, that it did be plain how she didlove in all her body and spirit to be anigh to me, as I to her. Yet,
truly, as you do mind, the armour did be upon me; so that I feared totake her very strong in mine arms, lest I hurt the dear Maid; and surelythe armour did be a stern matter for her to nestle unto; but yet,mayhaps, did the sternness something please her womanheart, and yet,again, mayhaps to lack.And presently, she made that she would go from me, and I loosed minearms from her very ready, because that I did heed alway that she havefull sweet liberty of her dear Maidenhood; and I to be watchfulsufficient unto this end, yet always honest and wholesome and notover-pondering even in this my care; and this proper intending youshall ever perceive, if that your hearts do strive to hearken unto myheart, which doth speak alway before you.And the Maid went from me, over to where she had put the cup of thewater, and the tablets; and I to make to rise, that I look that theboulder did be safe untouched in the mouth of the cave. But she calledunto me that I lie backward; for that she did mean gently to spoil methat once; and that I have no heed to the boulder or whether there didbe any Monster or Beast anigh in the Gorge; for that the boulder did besafe as I did balance it; and nowheres any Creature to sight in theGorge; for she had lookt oft, since waking, to this end.
[EMOTION]And truly I obeyed, and lay back, and did like that I should be spoilt,as we do say. And Naani brought the cup of the water, and the tabletsover to me; for she gat them from the scrip before I had it to mypillow, in that while when I had gone downward for the boulder. Andsurely, even when she brought the cup, she would not have me to rise;but took my head upon her knees, and kist me once very dainty on thelips, and I very happy to be so loved, and wishful no otherwise.And she took a tablet and kist it and gave it to me; and afterwardtouched another to my lips, and had that to be for her own. And so we
[RELIEF][EMOTION][TRANSITION][CONTEXT][METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE]eat and were very glad and happy, someways as children are happy, andour hearts all at ease.And presently, we eat each our second tablet, in the same wise as thefirst. And truly I did be kist more than once. And afterward, we drankeach of the water.
And when we had made an end, Naani told me that I move to stand; andsurely I wondered; and I stood up, and lo! I near cried out with thepains of my bruisings; for I was all gone stiff in my sleep, and as thatI did be more sore than ever; and this to be because I had fought again,as you do know, and surely had been hurt more by the Four-Armed Man thanI had known.And I perceived then that Naani had supposed that I should be thuspained, and had given dear thought to the matter; and truly she had thepot of the ointment, ready, if that I did be very bad, that she rub me.And she gave me aid with mine armour, and afterward eased me with mygarments; and surely I did be utter bruised in the body, by reason ofthe violence of the Yellow Beast-Man. And the Maid had somewhat so
[EMOTION]tender and sweet in her eyes as she looked upon the bruisings, that Idid be very happy and to glow with contentment.And she had me to lie, and made me in comfort with the cloak, so lovingand grave, so that I was as a child that doth be cared of by his mother.And she did rub me very skilful and gentle for a great hour, until I wasall refreshed. And in verity she was a lovely wise maid.
[RELIEF][EMOTION]And as the Maid ministered unto me, I lay alway very restful, andharked to the low sound of the muttering of the fire-hole that did be inthe bottom of the Gorge; and alway I did feel as an happy child thatdoth be clothed in love and guided in wisdom.And presently, when that the Maid had ended her dear care, she put bythe ointment, and gave me her hands very dainty, that she mean to aid meto rise; and surely when I was come again to my feet, I was all eased,and to have movement with no great pain; and truly this made me wondrouspleased and to feel new couraged; for I had been troubled that I shouldbe so helpless, in that I did be the Protector of Mine Own.And when I had tried my limbs, and found them to be in command andready, I lookt about for my garments. And lo, the Maid brought me myspare body-vest, from the Pouch, and had it upon her arm, to give to me.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]But surely she denied me a moment, of the vest, and stood before me, andhad an admiring and wonder, very sweet and honest, because that my armsdid be so great and hard with muscles.And, indeed, I did be very strong, as you have perceived; for I did bealway in affection of the Exercises that were taught in the Upbringingof all the Peoples of the Mighty Pyramid; and by this explaining, youshall understand that I was like to be strong; but indeed, I owed thestraightness and shaping of my body to the Mother that bore me. Andafterward, in all my life, had I taken pride of my body to be of healthand to have strength; and surely this is a matter very fit for pride;and to be told bravely and with honesty.And the admiring of the Maid was very sweet to me; and, in verity, I didbe to deceive, if that I said otherwise. And in a moment, she dropt my
[EMOTION][TRANSITION]body-vest, and put out her hands to me that I take her into mine arms.And I took the Maid into mine arms with a great gladness and withsomewhat of humbleness that I was nowise good enough to hold her, for myheart was young, and I loved her very dear and youthful. And she did liethere very quiet and happy, a little; and surely I did find presentlythat she kist the great muscling of my breast, very sweet and sly, whereher face did be press against it. And lo, in a moment, she came free ofmine arms, and gave me an aid with my garments, and afterward with minearmour.And when that this was done, she stood off from me; and she lookt at me,half shy and half of sweetness and naughtiness. And she came then in a
[WITCH]moment, and put her hands upward to my shoulders, and so stood hereyelids something down over her eyes; and did steal a little look up,this time and that. And lo! in a sudden moment, before I did wot, shewas to her knees before me, and did weep; and I down very swift to kneelwith her.And I askt not why she wept; for I perceived that she did have joy andglad happiness and sweet trouble of her man; and that she did be a truewoman, and one part of the woman did worship, so that she did bestrangely humble and nigh to be shy; and another did love, and need thatshe be anigh to me; and a third to have a calm wisdom. And all did now
be a-tremble, together in her heart; and I knew that I did be truly anhero to her, though but usual to all others. And my heart was wondrousproud and wondrous humble, so that I was in the same moment upraised andto feel dreadly unworthy. But I made no pretending to discredit myselfto her, but only did resolve that I win alway her dear respect; and Idid be natural and truthful of my manner and without foolish denial ofher sweet worship, for she was utter Mine Own, and it did be a pitifulthing if that I seem otherwise than an hero unto her.But of you I ask kind understanding, and to call me not a thing ofconceit because that I did understand; for truly I knew my faults, evenso well as you, that do know all of my going. And you to look backward
upon the love-days, and to mind how that your maid did ever to make yougreat in manhood with her dear belief and uplooking; and so shall youconceive of all my feelings; for we do be all so human in this matter,and to meet on a dear natural ground, as you will say.And, truly, in a little time, Mine Own did be steadied, and wiped herpretty eyes, and nestled to me a while, very husht and to need that shebe close. And I to have her gentle against mine armour, and to be in myheart as that I did be her father and her lover in the one man, andsurely to be silent and joyful that I lived.And presently I slipt her shoes from her little feet, with my righthand, the while that she did rest within my left arm; and I condemnedmyself that I had thought not more swift to this end; but indeed I hadthought upon it while that Naani rubbed me, and had intention thiswise;but afterward forgat, as you shall understand, that have been with mealway. And truly Mine Own did be hurt that I say aught to my blame; and
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][ACTION][SURPRISE][DANGER][GORE]I to cease, but yet to feel reproached by my heart.And when I had lookt to the Maid's feet, I tied on her shoes again; andwe gat together our gear. And afterward we came down from the cave, witha great care, because that it did be so high up in the cliff of theGorge.And afterward, we made downward of the Gorge, and had a good care to ourgoing, and so much of speed as we could make, that we come something offfrom the Dark Land of the Lesser Redoubt, so quick as we might.
And in six hours we had gone very well, and we stopt then that we eatand drink; and afterward, I lookt again to the feet of the Maid. And Ibathed them in a great rock basin of warm water that did be anigh to theplace of our eating; and afterward I put the ointment about them verythorough and gentle and for a good while; and so she had some ease andcomfort.And afterward, we made onward again; but now we did go pretty easy; forI had considered the notings of mine outward journey, and so didperceive that we should be but six or seven hours off that part of theGorge, where did be the Slugs.And I was minded that we rest and sleep, ere that we make through thatdire and dreadful place; for that we should be twelve great hours, andmore, to go through, and to have no rest or pause, until that we did besafe outward again, as you shall think. And so did we need to be strong
[GORE]and well rested, and this to be wise also for the feet of the Maid.Now surely the Maid did be in delight of the fires of that part of theGorge where we were come, and she had beside a rest of the soul, in thatshe had feeling that there did be no Evil Force to trouble us to ourdestruction; and I bothered her not yet awhile with tellings of thehorrid place that we should to journey through in a while, as you doknow.And so we did go, and alway with a good caution, lest that some Beast orCreature should come upon us; and alway with the fire-holes before andbehind, and in the air of the Gorge the little whistlings of steam thatdid spirt out in this place and that; and a good warmth in many parts,by reason of the fires; and odd whiles a smelling of sulphur; but notgreatly, nor to our trouble. And alway the low muttering of thefire-holes and pits, and the red lights, and the dancing of the shadowswhen that we did go by a fire-pit where the fire did frisk and burnlively. And upon either side, the grim walls of the Gorge going up
measureless into the night.And so we were gone presently, pretty comfortable, for six good hours,since last that we eat; and we made halt, and eat and drank; and Ishowed the Maid how that we should make a short journey that day, andsleep, and so be ready to the horrid journey through the dark part ofthe Gorge, where the Slugs did be.And we made search then, that we have a safe place to our slumber; andsurely I perceived where we did be; for we came upon that same cavewhere I did sleep after that I was come free of the Slugs; and that wewere come no farther, doth show how easy did be our present going, andthis you do know. And there did be the spring where I washed, and thefire-hole anigh, and truly they were not like to be gone away, as youshall say! Yet did we exclaim, very natural; for the Maid did be so deep
in interest of the matters of my coming, and to be at once that no otherplace should serve for our rest and slumber.And, indeed, this was a natural thing, and the place so good as any,save that I did wish it had been upward unto a high place of the Gorge,as you shall understand. But yet might we block the mouth-part of thecave with boulders, somewise as I did before, and so to have a defenceagainst any thing that should make to enter upon our sleep; or at theleast to be waked by the falling of the boulders.Now Mine Own went inward of the little cave, which did be very lightfrom the fire-pit that was to the front; but before that she did go, Imade a swift search of the place, that there should be no creepingthing; and truly it was sweet and free. And the Maid did be strangely
taken that she should come to the veritable place where once I did lieon mine outward way; and truly I do understand, and so shall many thatdo have these feelings about matters. And afterward, we went unto thehot spring that was in the hollow of the rock, anigh to the fire-pit.And I saw that there did be no snakes, neither any of the rat-thingsanigh; and so I had the Maid to sit very comfortable on the side of thepool, and I freed her shoes, and bathed her feet, and afterward rubbedthem very steady with the ointment; and so for a good time, and alway tokeep a looking out upon the Gorge.And presently, when that I had taken a loving care of her pretty feet, Itied the shoes again upon the Maid, and so back to the cave; and the twoof us to carry boulders, according to our strength. And when we had a
sufficient, we builded a rough and clumsy wall, after that we were goneinto the cave; and the wall rose nigh to fill the mouth of the cave, andmade us to be somewise in darkness, but yet to feel in safety. And I hada good heed to make the chinks of the wall very close in the bottom, sothat no small creeping thing should come through unto us whilst that weslept.And afterward, Naani set the scrip and the pouch to be for my pillow;but had the bundle of her torn garments to be for her own purpose.And I perceived that she had the water-powder and a pack of the tabletsto her hand for our waking, that she might prepare our food, and mayhapto wake a little before me, so that she have all ready to greet me frommy sleep. But, indeed, I said naught to show that I knew; for I saw that
[RELIEF][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT]this thing did give her a dear pleasure, and truly it was very sweet tohave her to these gentle duties, that did be to her so sure and quiet adelight.And Mine Own bade me that I lie; and she put the Diskos upon the outwardside of me, to mine hand; and with a dainty and fearful touch; for theweapon did be very dreadful unto her thoughts; but yet a comfortingthing to abide for our defence. And afterward, she covered me with thecloak, and kist me very sedate upon the lips; and then to her own side,and to come very nice and happy under the cloak, and so to her rest.And presently she did sleep, as I perceived by her breathings; andsurely it did seem to my spirit that she had an utter and dear contentin this arranging of our slumber, so that she did be all at peace in allher being, because that she did be nigh unto me, that did be her OwnLove.
But, indeed, I could not sleep for a time; and surely, in a while, MineOwn did nestle unto me in her sleep, so sweet and dear as a child, andlikewise as that it did be her right to be so anigh unto me; and I to bethat I should put mine arms about her, but indeed I moved not, neitherdid I kiss her, as I did wish; for truly I should be very manly withmine own maid that did be so trustful and utter mine in her sleep.And presently I was over unto slumber also, and stirred not for eightgood hours, and did wake then to the hissing of the water, so that Iknew Mine Own was awake before me, as she had planned, and was makingready that we eat.And when she saw me move in the half-light, she gave out a little wordof joy, that I did be again to knowledge of her; and she came over, andput her arms about my neck, and kist me very loving, thrice upon thelips. And, in verity, it came to me in that moment that I had been kista while gone in my dreams, but scarce to know it; yet I perceived nowthat Mine Own had taken a naughty advantaging of my slumber, that shekiss me to her own pleasure; yet did the Maid say no word of hernaughtiness; and I to be likewise; but to resolve that I waken, mayhaps,on the next time, and so catch her in her sweet and secret delight ofme.
And, truly, this doth sound quaint; but to be true.And I rose, and took down the half of the wall that did be across themouth of the cave, and afterward lookt out; but there was no sight ofany horrid thing in the Gorge, save that one of the rat-things didslumber, very gorged-seeming, upon the side of the little fire hole.And afterwards, we eat and drank; and the Maid then to rub me, asbefore; for I was greatly stiff on my waking, as you shall think; butshe came not into mine arms presently, as I did hope; but only kist myshoulders, when that she had finished, and so bid me to dress.Yet, after that I was drest, and had mine armour full upon me, she mustcome unto me, and she slipt her two small hands into the one of mine,and so stood by me, very silent. And sudden she put up her lips very
[EMOTION]quiet and passionate, that I should kiss her; and she kist me once, asit did be as that her spirit kist mine, and all her being came unto me;and she gave me but that one kiss, and afterward slipt her hands verygentle from mine, and made to the gathering of our gear.But truly, I that loved her so great, knew that a tumult of love did behid in her heart. And, indeed, she looked once at me in such wise, thatI grew near to a true humbleness of heart because of the honour and lovethat did be in her eyes.And surely, it is a very little thing to die for such an One as Mine Owndid be. And by this saying, shall you perceive my heart in that moment,
[EMOTION][ACTION][CHARACTER][EXPOSITION][METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE]and that I did pant, as it were, that I do some deed of love to show mylove. And truly this is but a natural desiring and human, and the causeproper to the uplifting of manhood. And surely you shall all mind you ofsuch feelings in the past love-days, that I do pray should be neverpast.And when we had our gear together, I left it in the cave, and took MineOwn over unto the hot pool that was anigh to the fire-pit; and she toexclaim upon the rat-thing that did be yet a-slumber upon the side ofthe fire-pit; and I to say that the thing did be no cause for fear, butrather, indeed, a good friend, in that it was a devourer of snakes, asyou shall mind.
And while that we talked, I bathed the little feet of Naani; and surely,as I dried them upon my pocket-cloth, I was taken that I should kissthem; and surely I kist them, and they did be very shapely and dainty,and all eased of travel by the care that I did take to this end.And afterward I rubbed them with the ointment for a good while, and sohad them again into the shoes, and the Maid very quiet, after that I hadkist her feet that did be so dainty, but yet with a sweet naughtiness inher way, as my heart perceived, though she did nothing, neither saidanything, to this end; and was truly very obedient, and orderly to allmy wishes.And we went back then to the cave, and the Maid put the pot of theointment back into the pouch, and she buckled the pouch and the scripupon me; and the Diskos I had upon my hip; for I went nowise anywhere,without it, as you shall suppose. And she had the little bundle of herclothing for her burden, and truly, I was ready that she should carry somuch; for we did be to act wisely, and she well able to carry so small athing, and I better to have my hands alway free to the Diskos and to theneeds of the way.
[EMOTION][WITCH]And we went downward of the Gorge at a strong speed, for there did besomewise of fifteen hours good journey, ere that we come out upon thefar side of that place where the Monsters did be, and this did be threehours to the upward beginning of that place, and twelve hours journeythen, in the least, that we should take to go through again into thelight of the Gorge below. And this I did reckon from my notings of mineupward journey, as you do know.And I made all clear to the Maid, of the thing that did be before us,and made not to hide the danger and horror, but yet to make not overmuchof the same. And she to walk close beside me, very sweet and trustful,and to say that she feared naught, so that I should be there to havecare of her; but only that she did fear harm for me; and yet to haveconfidence that I should slay all hurtful things that should be like totrouble us. And, truly, I did kiss her for her dear belief and love.
[SURPRISE]Now, in the middle part of the third hour, the air of the Gorge didbegin that it was heavy, and to have a seeming of fumes that stangsomething upon the throat, odd whiles. And there were presently less ofthe fire-holes, and soon, as we did go the more downward, the beginningsof a great gloom, and to have smoke therein that made us to feel husky.And in the end of the fourth hour, we were come truly far downwardwithin the gloom; and to be as that we groped in a fog of distaste; andto know not how we went with any surety; for oft there did be an utterdarkness about us; and awhile the shine of a dull-glowing fire-pit uponour sight, that did show us the gloom and dread of that place.And we went alway very husht, and the Maid to my back; but I did haltnow and this time, and make to know how she did be; and surely shewhispered very brave to me through the dimness, and once did slip herhand into mine, and I to take off mine armoured glove for a littlemoment, that I hold her hand, and give her nice assurance. But, in
[DANGER][EMOTION][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][HORROR]verity, there was terror in mine heart, that did be a terror far beyondthe trouble of mine upward way; and surely I was shaken newly with everydanger, lest that I should lose Mine Own, or she to come to any hurt.And, indeed, you shall perceive how I did be; for so should you be in alike case, and, in truth, it doth be an utter anxiousness and suffering.Now when we had been two hours in the dark part of the Gorge, I smelledof the dread and horrid stink that you do wot of. And surely a greatfear came upon me; for I perceived that we did come among the Monsters,or that one came anigh to us.
[EMOTION]And I whispered unto the Maid that she halt; and we stood very husht awhile, and surely the stink did grow, and to be very dreadful in thenostrils, so that I felt Mine Own Maid to shake somewhat with the fearand disgust that this thing did make in us. And presently the stinkingdid ease somewhat from about us; but whether there had gone past us amonster Slug, I have no sure knowing; for there did be no fire-pit anighto that place; so that there was a great darkness all about.And surely there was a great slowness and wetness of the air, and dismaldrippings that made desolation in the silence; and the feel of strangegrowths upon the boulders, as you do know, and oft an horrid slime anddankness; and the stink to be everywhere, so that we knew a constantdisgust and fear. And alway the fumings of sulphur, that did seem, inverity, to beat down upon us, utter heavy and sore upon our lungs.
[MONSTER]And so went we onward amid the smell that did be as of dead things; andoft did we make pause and hark, and had a great care as we did go by thedull fire-holes and fire-pits, that we should make no showing ofourselves in the light.And sudden, as we did go by a great pit that burned very deep and red, Ireached back and caught Mine Own by the arm, and I set her gaze untothe right side of the Gorge, which was beyond the fire. And the Maidwent very still, as she did see the thing that was there; for in verityit was utter monstrous, and did shine very wet-looking in the light ofthe fire. And truly it moved a little with the head, this way and that,stretching through the dark and the shadows, as you shall see a slug tomove, and with no speed or sound, and nowise seeming heedful of aught.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][MONSTER]But yet did I fear that it smelled us, if this might be; and this, asyou shall think, to be a very natural fear.And alway, as I do mind, it seemed to go blindly somewise, or to havethat slow and strange moving that doth make one to think of a blindness;but whether it did be truly blind, how shall I say; only that it was anutter Monstrous Brute, so great as the black hull of a ship, and verydreadful unto our hearts.And we moved not for a while, save that I pulled Mine Own down into thehiding of the boulders of that part; and she to put her hand veryanxious unto me; yet not to be comforted, as I did half to think, but topersuade me, lest that I go to some adventuring that should set me in asurer danger. And this I perceived in a little moment, and loved her forher care.
[MONSTER]But, indeed, I had no mind to aught, save that we come clear of thatplace; and I watched the Monster, through places between the boulders;and surely, in a little while, it swayed the great head very slow andquiet unto the cliff that did make that side of the Gorge; and the Bruteset unto the Cliff, and began that it went upward with a strange movingof muscles that did go wavewise under the wet and horrid-gleaming hide.And so, in a little time, it was gone quiet against the cliff, and thehead-part did be upward in the darkness above, so that it did be fromour sight. But the monster body did be plain for a great way, and wasseeming clung to the cliff, and to come downward out of the dark, asthat it did be a great black ridge of soft and dreadful life upon theface of the cliff; and the tail was something less bulked, and to taper,and did trail outward into the Gorge upon the boulders.And surely the thing did seem as that it slept, but that odd whiles thetail did lift a little off the boulders, and curl somewise, andafterward come down again upon the boulders, mayhap in this place andmayhap in that place, as we did watch, all hid.
[PERSPECTIVE][MONSTER]And it was as that our sense and our Spirits did assure us that thething had no wotting of us; but surely our fears did nigh to equal thecomfort of this sweet reason, and to make us think otherwise.Yet, in a time, I made that we go forward together through the spacesthat did be among the boulders. And I went creeping, and the Maid tofollow likewise.And oft I did pause, and made a watching upon the monster; but truly itmoved not, save as I have told; and I kept a great heed upon the Maid,that she follow alway close unto my feet.
[MONSTER]And in the end we came safe from that place where the monster did beclung unto the great cliff in the night.And we went then for two great hours without adventure, save that oncethe Maid touched me that we pause; for that something went by us wherewe did be in an utter dark place of the Gorge, and no fire-hole anigh.And I knew that the thing did be near, even as the Maid toucht me. Andcaught I the Maid in the dark, and thrust her under the side of aboulder; and I crouched then before her, with mine armour, that I shouldprotect her from any Brutish thing. And the Diskos in my hand, and
[DANGER][HORROR]afterward an horrid time of waiting.And the stink of that part of the Gorge grew very dreadful, so that itdid be as that we should not breathe, with the horror of the stink. Andthere went past us some horrid and utter Monster, that made neithersound nor anything, save that there seemed a strange noise that might bethe breathing of a great thing; but yet did be all uncertain, in thatthe sides of the Gorge cast the sound this way and that, in an horridwhispering of echoes; so that we did not know whether the sound be madenigh to us, or afar upward in the eternity of the night, where I didsuppose the mountains to be joined over the Gorge in a monstrous roof inthat part.And presently, the strange noisings died in the upward height, and allabout us; and the utter disgust of the stink went from us; so that weknew that the Monster had gone past us, and did make downward throughthe dark Gorge; and mayhap then to some lone and dreadful cavern of theworld, as I did think.
And, indeed, as I do mind, I had a sudden wonder at that time, and otherwhiles, as it did chance, whether this way did be truly the olden waythat the Peoples of the Lesser Refuge did travel in the Olden Days. Andsurely, as I did suppose, they had come some other way, or the Gorge tobe different and less dreadful in the far-off years. And this thing youshall agree with me to be a reasonable thinking.And after that the Monster had gone a good while we went onward again,and with a great caution; and dreading alway lest that we come upon thatMonster, in the darkness; but yet did we know by smell, and by all ourconsciousness, whether that we came nigh unto one of the monster Slugs.
[EMOTION]Then, in the end of the fifth hour in the dark part of the Gorge, wecame by the mouth of that great cavern, upon our left; and you toremember the same.And I made pause in the darkness, and had the Maid very gentle by thearm, that she should look with me. And I whispered how that I past thisplace, to my right, upon mine upward way, and how that I did thinkthere to be a-plenty of monster caverns within the mountains that madethe sides of the Gorge, and that, mayhap, the Slug-Creatures had therean home in such places, or came up, it might be, from some utter strangedeepness and mystery of the great world.And the Maid did bide very close unto me, and silent, whilst that Iwhispered; for the terror of the place did be on her, yet not to makeher lacking of courage, but yet to put a monstrous awe upon her and agreat and natural fear; and I likewise, as you do know.
[DANGER][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][METAPHOR][CONFLICT][TRANSITION]And we stayed there, where we did be, a little moment, and lookeddownward into the bowels of the monster cavern; and the shine of thefire-hole beat over the cavern in the near part; but there did be anutter mystery and deathly dark beyond the shining of the pit that did bewithin, as you shall remember.And, in verity, as we stayed but to glance, I perceived that there layhumped things about the fire, and some to be black-seeming, and some tohave a seeming of whiteness, but with no sureness in the colour to mineeyes.And there came a moving in one of the humpt things, so that it did be asthat an hill did wake unto an horrid life. And immediately I knew thatthe humps did be some utter monsters, mayhaps even the great Slugs,a-slumber about the fire-pit that did burn in that strange deeplycavern. And I saw that I did ill for our lives, that I should pause even
[EMOTION][DANGER]for a little moment to such staring.And immediately I whispered to Mine Own that we go with all our speed;for, indeed, I knew not whether that our nearness had waked thatMonster, or whether that it had but waked by chance. And truly, I wasutter eager that we be gone from that place, so swift as we might.And we went on then through all of the sixth hour that we did be in theSlug part of the Gorge, as I named it unto myself. And in all that hour,
there did nothing harmful come anigh; only, as I did know presently,there came an unease upon our spirits, but yet to be very little at thattime, and we to be scarce knowing of it. And alway, as we went, theredid be darkness for the most, and odd-whiles a vague murmuring of thenight far above, as it did seem; and presently the dull glare of afire-pit to shine out far off below us in the Gorge, and to seem verydim and unreal unto us, by reason of the smokes and the fumes that madea haze and a distaste in the Gorge.And presently, the murmuring of the night to grow somewhat, and,afterward, the sound of the muttering of the fire-pit to come unto us;and the murmuring to die unto our ears that did be hearing now only thedull muttering, and so we to know that the murmuring of the night did betruly the far-off muttering of the fire-holes, and our eyes to guide ourhearing, and our reason to explain and knit the sounds; and so we topass by the fire-hole with a great quiet and caution and ever withwatchfulness, as you shall suppose. And afterward again into the dark;and presently again the murmuring, to tell that we came unto another ofthe fire-pits, that was yet afar off in the Gorge, and made dim echoesin the night.
[CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE][RELIEF][HORROR]And alway we went very watchful, and in grim fear; but withsteadfastness and good intention to win forth out of that desolation andhorror, and having alway so great a speed as the darkness and thedangers and the trouble of the way did allow.And in this place I will make explanation why that I speak somewhiles offire-pits and otherwhiles of fire-holes; for the holes did be thosefires that burned nigh to the brim of the holes; but the pits were thoseplaces where the fire was deeply in the earth. And this thing I give foryour enlightenment, even on a small matter; so that you shall have aclear knowledge to abide with me all the way; and you to agree of thisfor wisdom, and I to be pleased that you so agree.And here also, I should tell that there did not come a muttering fromall of the fire-holes and the fire-pits; but mayhap from this one, andmayhap not from that one, according to the way of the fire therein. And
[EMOTION][DANGER][PERSPECTIVE][PROBLEM][METAPHOR][CHARACTERIZATION][SURPRISE][CONTEXT][CONFLICT][GHOST]this shall be plain unto you.And so shall you see us go, and the smoke and the bitterness of thesulphur to be all about us; and oddwhiles the murmuring of a far-offpit, and oft the utter silence; and to pass this time a lonesomefire-hole; and afterward the utter dark, or the half-gloom, all as mightchance, according to the nearness of the fires. And upward in theeverlasting night, the grim mountains to make a roof over us, as I didsuppose.And all this while did the unease, of which I have told, make upon us;so that, presently, Mine Own whispered unto me the thing that already myspirit did half to perceive, that there came after us through the nightsome harmful thing, that did be surely no great way off, as I did feelwithin me, and the Maid to have a likeways belief.
[DANGER][EMOTION]And, truly I thought at once upon that Brute that did wake downward inthe mighty Cavern, where did be the great inward fire-hole, as I havetold; but whether this did be true knowledge that we did be chased inthe dark by that thing, or whether there came after us some otherMonster, I could have no sureness; but only that we did be chased, andof this I had assuredness.And I set the Maid before me, that I have myself ready to the dangerthat followed; and we made forward again then, so quick as we wereabled; and she went very wisely; for she had good wit and had noted theways of my leading.And we went thus until the end of the seventh hour. And surely, in thattime, we heard the murmuring in the night which told of a fire-holesomewise before us; and soon to have the red glare plain to our eyes,and the noise of the murmuring to die away into the nearer mutter ofthe fire; and so presently to be anigh; and we to make forward with agood speed, because that we feared utterly the thing that made quietchase of us through the night.
And oft I did look backward, and smelt the air, that I know whether itdid be a monster Slug-beast that chased us; but there did be noworseness of the smell, to tell me aught.And alway, I did be fretted in the heart, that we could make no greaterspeed; but, indeed, as you shall perceive, our going did be but a slowthing in the dark places, and even thus we had many a sore tumbling andbruising.And by this, we were come almost unto the fire-hole; and immediately, Isaw that I knew the place, for there went upward beside the fire, agreat jaggedness of rock, that I had seen upon mine upward way.And surely, I caught the Maid in an instant, and bent her, and she quickto obey with her body. And we were both immediately hid downward among
[DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][MONSTER]the boulders. And this I did, because I minded how that there did bemany of the Monsters nigh to this same fire-hole, as I did go upon mineupward way.And we went forward then with an utter care; but yet to keep onward,because that there did be somewhat in chase of us. And, in verity, whenthat we were come opposite unto the fire-hole, I saw that there did beseven of the monster Slugs against the far side of the Gorge, and did beall set upon their bellies against the cliff, and their horrid heads tobe hid in the upward dark, and their tails to lie very great andsoft-seeming in the bottom of the gorge, upon the boulders.
[DANGER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][EMOTION][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][TRANSITION][HORROR]And, lo! the Maid toucht me, and she drew me to look upon the near cliffof the Gorge. And truly there did be three of the Brutish Things laidupward there, and a fourth did be humped somewhat upon a great ledgethat did be upward of the Gorge, and just to be plain to our eyes.And surely, it was as that we did be all surround by such Monsters, andto make the heart sink, and fear to lie upon our hopefulness. But,
[RELIEF][TRANSITION]indeed, the Maid showed a good spirit, and I to have fierce determiningthat we come free of that Gorge, and afterward, in time, unto our MightyHome.And we made forward again, and did go creeping among the rocks and theboulders; and so came presently past that place, and had not waked theMonsters, if that indeed they did truly sleep.And I made halt a moment upon the far border of the light from thefire-hole, and I lookt backward up the Gorge, perchance that I shouldsee the thing that followed us. But, indeed, there came nothing out ofthe dark of the upward Gorge, so that I knew that there did be some safespace to our backs, which did be truly a comforting thing.
[METAPHOR][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][EXPOSITION][CHARACTER][SUSPENSE][WEAPON][CHARACTERIZATION][CONFLICT][CONTEXT][SETTING][DANGER][PERSPECTIVE][PLOT][TRANSITION][EMOTION]And here I should tell how that there was no great stinking in thatplace where did be so many of the Slug-beasts, and this to puzzle me;and in the end to make me think that some of those horrid things didstench more great than others; but yet I to have no certainty in thismatter, as you do perceive. And, truly, this thing troubled me; for Ihad been comforted that my nose should tell me when that the thing thatmade chase of us should draw nigh in the darkness; and now, in verity, Iknew not what to have for assurance; for the awaredness of the spiritwas but a vague thing, and no more in such a matter, than a feeling asof an inward warning.And we went onward then for a great hour, and with an horrid unease uponus; and thrice we did go by fire-pits in the darkness; and alway I madepause upon the far side of the light, that I should look backward; butdid have no sight of aught; yet did my spirit or my fears warn me withnew fear, and a greater sense of nearness; and the Maid to confess alsoto this thing.Now, we saw not any of the Slugs for a long while, neither had therebeen any about the three fire-holes; and the air of the Gorge was grownsomething sweet and free somewhat of the stench of dead-seeming things;but yet to be very bitter with fumings and smoke and sulphur stinks.
And lo! in the middle of the tenth hour, as we did go, painful and withanxiousness in a very dark place of the Gorge, there came unto us againthe smell that told to us that one of the Monsters did be anigh. Andsurely we had both a great fear, in that we had belief that it did be asign that the thing that made chase, did draw near upon us. But yet didI to use my Reason also, and to know that the stink might be from someMonster that we were come nigh to in the darkness of that place; and Iwhispered this unto the Maid, and she to say, very husht, that it mightbe so; but to have no belief; and I to be likewise, as you do see.
[EMOTION][DANGER][SURPRISE][HORROR]And we pusht forward at a new speed, and had many bitter falls, so thatwe did be all bruised; but not to know it at that time, because that ourfear did be so keen. And oft we made a little pause and harkt; but theredid be only the dismal drip of water from on high; and presently themurmur of the night, that told that we drew near unto a new firepit.And surely this was a great easement to our spirits, in that we shouldhave light to perceive our danger, and mayhap to win free. But to be inthat utter dark, was a thing to break the courage, and to breed beliefthat we did be utter helpless, and all wrapt in horror and despair.
[CONFLICT][DANGER][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][EMOTION][HORROR]And the stink grew ever, as we made forward; so that I knew not whetherthere did be great Monsters beside the fire-pit that was to our front,as I have told, or whether it made plain the advancing of the Pursuer.And we only to be able to make our best speed, and to be weary with hopethat we rush not blind into death; and alway to be chilled in the backwith the belief that the thing that made chase did be very close in thatutter dark, and to gain upon us.And we knew not whether to make our belief to be the tellings of thespirit or the utterings of our fears; and so shall you perceive ourplight; and we but to be able to make forward. And, in verity, thedreadfulness of that time doth shake me now to think upon, and you also,if that you have gotten my tellings to your hearts, so that your humansympathy doth be with me.
And there came presently to our ears the far mutter of the fire-pit, sothat very soon the murmuring was lost to us in the night, and only theslow mutter to be plain. And the dull looming of the fire shone afaroff, through the night and the smoke and fumings; and we to a greatspeed, and to pant with fear; but yet with a freshness of hope again tosweeten us.And we came nigh to the fire-pit, and lo! the smell did be grown verydrear and foul; but there did be no Slug-Beast near the fire. And by
[TRANSITION][DANGER][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][EMOTION]this, we perceived that we did be truly in an utter danger, in that thePursuer did be upon us, and the stinking to tell this to be truth, andour spirits to have warned us very strong and proper.And I stopt near to the fire-pit, which did be great, and veryred-glowing; and I lookt upward of the Gorge, into the night of theGorge that we did come from; but the Monster was not yet upon us to workour death. And I lookt to the sides of the Gorge, and the Maid to havethe same thought that did be mine, that we climb the mountains that madethe sides of the Gorge.And I lookt very keen first to this side, and then did run overward,that I look more close upon the other; and afterward back again; for itdid seem that we should have a greater ease upon the side that we didbe.
[EMOTION]And I askt the Maid whether that she did be prepared; and she to be verywhite and wearied, and all besmirched with the dankness and growths uponthe boulders and the hidden pools of the Gorge and the dripping of thewaters; but yet did she be sound in her courage, and to show that shehad all belief and abiding in me, and her judgement likewise to be withmine, in that her own Reason did approve.And I took the bundle of her torn clothing from her, for it did be ather girdle, and like to trouble her movings; but she to refuse, verydetermined, in that I did be already over-burdened. And I to be firm inmy deciding, and to make her to yield the bundle, the which I hookt untothe [DIALOGUE]"hold" of the Diskos, where it did be to mine hip.And the Maid to be there, a little figure, and white in the face, andstrangely angered, and her anger mixt with hidden acknowledgement that Idid be her master, and half to be minded that she move not from whereshe did stand, and part to be reasonable and fearful of the hiddenBeast; and in part also to thrill in her womanhood unto the man that didbe so masterful unto her. And all to pass in a little moment, and we to
[DANGER]be to the Gorge side, and busied very eager to the climb.And the Maid to be first, as I did heed, and I to follow, and haveconstant looking to the task and to her safety, and alway to be bitteranxious for our speed to be good, and to be anxious the more then, lestthat Mine Own should slip; for there did be an horrid wetness upon thesides of the Gorge, as you shall have guessed, and horrid growths thatblotched the great rocks mightily, and made an utter slipperiness, ifthat they did be trod upon; and we to have to come so clear of all suchmatters, as we might, and yet to be speedy for our lives, and likewiseto lack no care and thought to the setting of our hands and of our feetin places fitted to the lifting of our weight.And truly you shall see that we went very desperate, and I to give wordto the Maid that she look not downward, the which I was urgent upon,lest that she come giddy in the heart. But I, as you shall think, couldscarce to keep from fearful peerings below, so that I learn speedywhether the Pursuer did come yet into the light of the fire-hole,beneath.
And presently, the Maid did gasp very weak and troubled with thesoreness of the climb; and I came higher, and set mine arm about her, aswe did be there upon the face of the cliff; and she stopt very still alittle while, and an ease did come to her, and an assurance of safety.And surely, I kist her there where we did be in that upward place, andher lips did tremble unto mine; and her courage and strength to comeback into her, so that in a minute she did make once more to theclimbing.And we came presently to a place where a great ledge did be, that juttedout from the mighty cliff, and was surely a huge way above the Gorgebottom. And the ledge sloped, and there were on the ledge, great stonesand boulders that did make lodgement there through eternity.
And I lookt very careful to our way, and saw that we did be in the pathof a mighty rock that was over-nigh unto the edge of the shelf-place,and did put fear upon me, in that it seemed that it should come downwith great thundering upon us, if that we but shook the place where itdid be.And I caught the Maid very swift and gentle, and shaped our path untoone side of that great rock, and did presently lose my fear, when thatwe did come safe from under it.And in a minute after, we were come upward upon the ledge, and a verysafe place it did seem, and surely as that no monster should be abled tocome upward upon us. And this I did try to make for comfort untoourselves; but that we both to know how that the great Slugs could lieup against the sides of the Gorge, and surely it did be like that theyshould be able to come upward clear of the Gorge, and so to the placewhere we made to have safety. And I had no thought to deny this thing,
[DANGER][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][SETTING]when that it was clear to my brain; but set rather that we should havesome way to fight the Monster, if that we did be discovered.And I thought in a moment upon the stones that did be about; and theMaid in the same moment cried out that we should push the big rock downupon the Slug that we believed to have chase of us, and indeed, the rockto be a great weapon, if we could but stir it, as you shall think.And alway, as we talked, very hushed, we lookt downward into thedeepness of the Gorge, unto the upward end of the fire-light; but therecame no thing yet unto our knowledge, only that the stinking did rise upto us through that great distance.And the fire-pit to seem now a very small burning, and to give no greatlight up to us; and we neither to be abled to see very clear of theGorge bottom, in that the haze of the fumes and the smoke was in the airof the Gorge, and made uncertainty; and we to be nowise proper free ofthe smoke, even where we did be.
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][ACTION][MONSTER]And we watched, very set with anxiousness and fearful expecting of themonster; and did be both yet lost of breath, and the Maid that she madeher words something broken for a little while.And lo! in a moment, Naani cried out very low and sharp that the thingdid come; and I to see a moving of somewhat, in the same instant, in theGorge that lay upon the upward side of the fire-pit.And immediately I saw the great and monster head of the Beast comeforward into the shine from the pit; and the head did be of a blotchedwhite, and to have the eyes upon great stalks that came from the forwardpart of the head; and the stalks to be set downward, so that the eyeslookt upon the bottom parts of the Gorge. And surely this doth be very
[MONSTER]horrid-seeming to the mind of this age, but yet to have a lessstrangeness unto the two of us that had seen many horrid sights, as youdo know.And as the Monster came forward the more into the light, I saw that thegreat and utter mighty bulk did be all of that same whiteness, that didbe so set over with blotchings and a seeming of unhealth. But, truly thecolour was proper to a creature that did abide in so great a darkness,as you shall say, yet had those Slugs that we did see, been black andshining, for the most, as I have told; and this to be as I saw, and Inot to heed here that I try unto explainings in this place; else shouldI be never eased of my task, as you do see.And the Monster Slug came onward, and as it did go, it set the stalks ofthe eyes in among the boulders, as that it did search; swayed now thisway and now that way, from side to side of the Gorge, and alway itpushed the stalks of the eyes inward among the boulders; and so to goforward, searching. And truly it was very dreadful to see the thing make
search for us, and to go so steadfast to so dread a purpose.And, indeed, I saw it not so plain as might be, because of the haze ofthe fumes and the smoke that did lie in the air of the Gorge, as I havetold, and made something vague the sight at this time and that; but yetwe did both see a strange thing; for when that the great white body didbe come half into the light, the Slug-Beast set out a big tongue amongthe boulders, after that it did peer thereunder; and the tongue did bevery long, and white, and something thin-seeming; and the Monster lappedinward in a moment a great snake from among the boulders, and the tonguedid hold upon the snake, as that there did be surely teeth or roughnessupon the tongue; but yet the distance to be too great for any surety ofthe sight, as you do know; and moreover, there did be the uncertainty ofthe haze within the air.And the Slug took the snake inward, all as it did lash and wriggle, andswallowed it in a moment; and, in verity, that snake did be a big andhorrid creature, else had it been not so plain to our sight; but it didbe as a worm unto the monster, and gone instant.And immediately, the Slug-Beast went again to searching, and the head tosway from this side unto that side of the Gorge; and by the wideness andease of this swaying shall you perceive the utter greatness of theBeast.
[EMOTION][METAPHOR][RELIEF][PERSPECTIVE]And alway, as it did come downward of the Gorge, it thrust the stalks ofthe eyes inward among the boulders, looking all ways; and oft the breathdid come from it, as a cloud; and the stink to rise up unto us, veryplain and an abomination. And again, we saw the Beast set the tongue inamong the boulders of the Gorge bottom; and it lickt forth a snake thatdid seem so thick as a man in the body, and the snake to thrash in thegreat white tongue, and to be immediately drawn inward, and gone utter.And surely, as the thought did stir in me, there did be a great Mercyover us, in that we did not die by such a serpent in some dark andhorrid place of the Gorge. But yet, as it is like to be, mayhap thesnakes did be only anigh to the fire-holes; yet doth it be anywise awondrous thing that we had come so free of them alway; and truly tolearn, was to be given a new terror.
[ACTION][MONSTER]Now the Monster was come fully into the shining of the fire-pit, and wasupon this side; and the fire to make a shining against the side of theSlug, so that odd whiles I did perceive very plain the huge wrinklingsand musclings of the skin, as the Beast made onward. And alway it didsearch, thrusting in the eye-stalks among the boulders.And sudden, it made pause, and did begin that it brought all the mightybody together, and humpt itself, and brought the head-part round untothe bottom of the cliff that made this side of the Gorge. And itgathered itself, and afterward did lengthen upward against the cliff,and begin to climb. And lo! I saw that the Beast did scent of us, and
[EMOTION][DANGER][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK][PROBLEM]made to come upward to destroy us.And as the mighty hill of the body did come into length against thegreat cliff-side, the Beast set the eye-stalks into this cave and that,as it did go, and into all crannies; and so lengthened upward verystraight and monstrous and dreadful unto us, and did be as a white andmildewed hill, that had an horrid life. And the stink to come up, sothat we did be like to lose our breath with the dreadfulness of it, asyou shall think.And surely, for a moment, I looked unto the rocks upon the ledge, andthis way and that way, and upward unto the everlasting darkness that didbe above us, and again unto the great rock that did seem to quiver uponthe edge, as I have told. And I was grown utter desperate in a moment;
[EMOTION][HORROR]for, truly, it did seem in that instant that there did be no power inthe world that should slay so utter mighty a Monster.And immediately, even as I did despair, I had run very swift unto thegreat rock, and the Maid with me, both very strained and shaken with thehorror of the thing that did make upward unto us so sure and intent.And I set my strength unto the rock, and heaved; but indeed the rockgave not from the place where it did be; so that I had a dreadfuldespair; for I saw that it did be more secure than had seemed. And theMaid lent her strength unto mine, and we heaved together, with sorepantings, and little cries to guide our endeavours and because we couldnot be contained in that moment.
[ACTION][DANGER][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][MONSTER]And surely it seemed that the great rock moved, and lo! as we strovetogether to the task, there came a vast and sudden grinding, and therock to cease from our shoulders, and to be gone from us, or scarce wedid wot of the happening. And the rock went over, and rushed downwardupon the Monster, and with mighty crashings, as it did grind and crushthe face of the cliff-side with a quick and constant thundering. And Icaught the Maid, as she did stagger upon that dire upward edge becausethat she had set her strength so utter to the endeavour, and the rock tobe gone so sudden, as you do see, and she to be like to follow after.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][DANGER][MONSTER]And she clung unto me, and I to hold her very safe as I lookt down uponthe falling of the Rock. And behold! the Great Rock smote the Monster inthe humpt part of the back, below of the head, and did enter into theMonster, even as a bullet doth strike, and was gone instant from mysight into the Vitals.And there came a mighty sound of anguish from the Monster; and theMonster did loosen from the cliff, and to crumple, as it did seem, andsink backward. And a great steam of dread breathing to go upward from
[CONFLICT][DEATH][DANGER][FLASHBACK][MONSTER]the Beast, and a reek; and it made again the strange and horrid noise ofpain, and the Gorge to be yet full of the echoes of the Rock thundering,and with the noise of the rock there was now mingled the horrid soundingof the death-crying of the Beast. And the Gorge to be filled with dulland dreadful echoings, as that an hundred Monsters died in this placeand that of the darkness in the Gorge, and all to be bred of the noiseof that mildewed hill a-dying.And the echoes ceased not for a while, even after that the Monster didbe utter quiet; for truly they came presently from far upward anddownward of the Gorge, out of all the eternity of the night, and to beas that they came backward very faint out of lonesome miles, and out ofthe strange deepness of unknown caverns of the world. And so in the endto silence; and the far bottom of the Gorge to be filled with a whiteand horrid hill, very dreadful, and that did yet quiver to show theslowness of Death. And alway a dreadful reek and stinking to fill all
[EMOTION]the air, even unto the height, as of the grave.And I stood upward in that far, high place, and held the Maid verystrong and tender; and she to have covered her ears from that dreadfulcrying; and to be yet shaken with the greatness and horror of the dyingof the Monster, and the nearness that she did come unto falling, as youhave seen.And presently she came less to tremble, and did weep very easeful, evenas a babe doth weep; and I, mayhap, to be not over-steady, as you shallthink; but yet to have a great gladness set in my heart, and a triumph,and an utter grace of thankfulness.And I held Mine Own, very tender and sure, as I did say; and she verysoon to be eased of her trouble, and the shock to be something gone fromher. And she lookt up at me, and slipt her arms upward about my neck,
and pulled me downward unto her, that she might kiss me.And we to talk then, of the going down; and surely this did seem a greatand dangerous task; for, truly, we had come upward pretty easy in theexcess of our fear; but how we might go down, with our blood cool, I didbe all in doubt.Yet, before that we did aught else, I led the Maid upward on to the safepart of the ledge; and we sat there, very quiet and weary, and she didbe leaned against me. And we eat, each of us, two of the tablets, and Ito scold and coax Mine Own to this end, and she to obey and to be betterafterward, because that she had eat. And we drank some of the water, and
did rest a time longer.And presently, our courage and strength was come back into us; and wepackt the scrip again, and the Maid set it fast to my back; and we wentthen to the edge of the shelf, and lookt downward, this way and that;and surely, there did be no way to go, save the way we came; only thatwe might shape our downward climbing to bring us a little below thatplace where the dead Monster did be.And I saw by mine own heart and by the paleness of the Maid, that weshould do well that we consider the thing no more; but make to the task.And I went immediately over the edge of the shelf, upon my belly, and Ibade Naani to follow. And we began then that we go downward; and, in
[SURPRISE][DANGER]verity, we went downward for, mayhap, a great hour; and I gave helpalway unto Mine Own, as I could; and she to come after me very brave,and made that she hold back her fear, and come downward of that cliff,that did be oft like to a mighty wall. And surely, even as we came down,I marvelled how we did ever go upward, even though fear did aid us; but,indeed, I do think it doth be easier to climb safely, than to comebackward; for this is how I have found.And we made rest thrice upon ledges of the cliff. And afterward camedownward again; and alway very slow and with exceeding heed where ourhands and our feet did go, that we slip not suddenly to our death.
And once, as I did see, the Maid was lost of all her strength, and didbe going to fall, because that she did be all gone into a suddenweakness of the head in an instant. And she did be silent, even in thatmoment, the which doth be marvellous unto me, and to give me a strongpride of her, as you shall understand, if that ever you have loved. Andsurely, I came upward, in a moment, that little space that was between,and had mine arm about Mine Own very swift, and held her hard and fierceagainst the cliff; and this I did that she should feel how that shecould never fall; and immediately, her strength and her dear couragecame back into her; and I kist her, there against the mighty cliff; andafterward she did have power again to come downward safe.And presently we were come to the Gorge bottom, and maybe an hundredpaces down the Gorge from that place where did be the dead Monster, allsunk into an ugly and horrid heap, so great as a small hill.
[EMOTION][DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][SURPRISE]And a dreadful stinking did hang in all that part of the Gorge, byreason of the Slug; and signs of disgust, as you shall think; and thegreat and mildewed body of the thing yet to settle and twitch, as I didlook, as it did come properly unto death in all that mighty bulk. Andeverywhere, the skin of the Beast did be set into great wrinklings, andhorrid blotchings to be upon the improper whiteness thereof; and truly Idid be in haste that I turn the Maid away from that thing, and that wehaste downward of the Gorge.And we went then for two good hours, and alway I did hearten the Maid,and she to go very husht and trustful by me; but truly I did be in ananguish of heart, because that I was newly aware that there did be suchgreat and dreadful serpents in that part of the Gorge, as you do alsoknow. And I was not over-feared for myself, but for the Maid that didhave no armour to protect her dear body. And because that I was so set
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][ACTION][EMOTION][WITCH]with this trouble, I took the Maid presently into mine arms, that Icarry her, and so to have her clear of aught that should lie among theboulders.And, in verity, Mine Own did show an anger very surprising anddetermined; for I said not why I should carry her--fearing to give her agreater unease--but only that she did be weary, and I very strong andwilling.And, indeed, I could not bring her to reason, without I told her, whichwas not mine intent; for she did refuse me to carry her; and said thattruly I had need of no added burden unto my labours.And when she saw that I would not be moved by her reasonings, she madeto win upon me by her loving ways; but, indeed, I only kist her; andwent forward with her in mine arms. And she half naughty, that I did beso heedless of her wishings, and somewise hurt also; and so to be silentin mine arms; yet mayhap to be something stirred in her nature, that Idid be steadfast to mine intention, despite that her will did becontrary.
[CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][ACTION][SETTING][WEAPON]And this I do believe to be truth, because that, afterward, I do thinkthat she lay there in mine arms, only as a woman that doth be in thehands of her Master that hath all her love.And in thiswise we went forward.And in the end of the two hours that we did go, there was come the endof the dark part of the Gorge; and we to be outward of that mighty roofof the mountains, as I do think it to have been; and the air to be freeof the stink of the Monsters, and the fire-holes to be very plenty, andtheir smokings to go upward very proper; so that we had no more thebitterness of their fumings in our throats.And there did be a pretty good light, to go by the contrast of the pasthours; and I set Mine Own again to her feet, and made that she keep tomy rearward, so that if there did be any serpents to our path, theyshould come first under my feet, and thiswise to work no harm to me,because of mine armour, neither to Naani, Mine Own Maid.
Now by this time, it was somewhat of nineteen great hours since we didsleep; for we had been a long while making that we come safe from theSlug; and, indeed, we had come downward with a less speed than I did gothrough upon mine upward way, as you shall mind; and this to be thatMine Own did not have the hard strength that was in my body to theenduring of great labour and stress; and this surely all to be plainunto you that have been with me in all my journey. And, moreover, theremust be kept to mind the three hours that we had gone, ere we were comeproper into the dark part of the Gorge; and so all to be remembered untoyou; and also you to mind that we did be wakeful a time, ere that we setforward upon that day's journeying.And we did go almost in joyous-wise, because that we were come safe outof that dreadful place; and surely, odd whiles I did feel the hands ofMine Own Naughty One to be hookt very pretty and sly into the backwardpart of my belt, as that she did make a pretending that she drive mebefore her; and surely this doth be a strange thing to tell upon; forthere did be no knowledge of the olden horse in all the eternity of thatdark world; but yet, maybe, some dear olden memory-dream did set herhands unconscious to this pretty work.And, in verity, once I turned very sudden, and had her swift into minearms, as she did pretend to drive me; and she to laugh with a sweet andjoyous gurgle against mine armour; and I to heed that I hurt her not,because I did be like an iron man that should put arms about a tendermaid.
And we lookt alway now for a place that should be proper to our rest andto our sleep; and when it did be close upon the end of the twentiethhour of that journey, the Maid showed me a cave that was, mayhap, fiftygood feet upward in the right side of the Gorge.And I lookt about, and saw that there did be two fire-holes anigh, and awarm spring to make a basin of water, that did lie between the fires;and all very well set to our need, as I did perceive; for, indeed, wedid be utter besmirched with the filth of the Slug part of the Gorge,and to need that we be nice and fitly washed, before that we have anycomfort of our selves.And I bade Naani to wait a little minute; and I lookt well up the Gorgeand well down the Gorge; and lo! there did be no thing to set me inunease; and I told Mine Own that she keep a sharp and steadfastwatching, and not to heed me; and this I said, because I knew she did belike otherwise to look at me and be over-anxious, as I go upward to thecave; and, indeed, she to be better anyway in watch of the Gorge, and tocry out to me, if that anything came anigh, whilst that I went upward.
And I made upward to the cave; and was come there pretty quick; andtruly it did be good for our purpose, and fresh-seeming and dry, and tohave no holes that I could see for the hiding of creeping things.And I called down gently to the Maid that the cave did be proper; andshe to show her gladness, and to be looking upward at me, instead of theway of the Gorge, as I set her; and truly she did be a dear and humanlittle Maid, and utter Mine; so that I did find a new joy in each smalllack of wisdom, and this just so much as that she had done a wondrousproper thing. And truly, you shall say, there was some properness to herheart, in that she could abide not but to watch me.And I went quickly down to Mine Own; for there was alway an unease uponme, save when I did be nigh to her, in chance of trouble.
[RELIEF]And when I was come down to her, the Maid did be seeming a little inthought; and afterward showed me how that she did be all in a pitifuldisgust of the dirt and slime and the drippings of the Gorge, that didbe on her, and had made her garment utter wet and bemired, so that shedid feel that her very body was a repulse unto her.And I saw how it did be with Naani; and I went to the warm pool, andfelt that it did be not over-hot, and afterward found the deepness, bythe handle of the Diskos, and this to be scarce of three feet, and thewater very clear to show me the bottom, so that it was surely a niceand proper place to be for such a purpose as I did think. And I set someof the water to my mouth, using my hand; and truly there did seem nohurtful chemical in the water; and therefore was I eased that the Maidshould have the desire that I did see to be in her mind.And I saw that I should be helpful to Mine Own, if that I make thearranging of things to be in mine own hands. And I went back unto the
Maid, and told her that the pool was very nice to be for a bath-place;and that she to haste to wash herself, whilst the Gorge did be free ofany Creature or Monster.Now I saw that Naani was troubled, and feared that I did be going toleave her, and yet did be paused a little in her words, to show me allthat she did wish.And surely, I stoopt and kist her, as she did look so wistful in herlittle puzzlement; and immediately I removed her trouble very natural,and told that I should stand guard anigh to her, the while that shebathed. And, truly she did be at ease on the moment, and mayhapsomething surprised to know wherefore she had been something a-lack toask me. But, in truth, it did be very natural.
[EMOTION][ACTION]And I told her to be so quick as she might, which was a needless thingto say, yet to start her; and she to go quietly to obey me; but first totake the cloak out of the hold upon my shoulders, and to unfold it, andso to the pool. And I to stand with my back thatwards, and to lean,ready, upon the Diskos.And presently she did be in the water, as I knew; and I to be her man,very sure and gentle to her and sedate. And truly, as you shall think, Idid love that I be to stand guard to her in her dear maidenhood; andshe, after that she was cheered and warmed by the delight of the water,to sing very low and happy to herself, where she did be to my back.
[EMOTION][ACTION][DANGER][DEATH][MONSTER]And, sudden, the singing to cease, and the Maid screamed; and I to haveno thought of improper modesty but turned instant to the Maid. And in amoment, I saw what did trouble her; for there came a serpent out of thewater; and the Maid to be all adrift with natural modesty, and with herfear of the serpent. And I was come into the pool in a moment, in minearmour, and did lift the Maid, naked and wet into mine arms, and had herinstant from the water, and upon the side of the pool; and there I wraptthe cloak about her; and ran very quick and killed the serpent, as itdid go offwards among the boulders. And surely it did be so thick asmine arm, and to have come from some hole that did be hid in the bottomof the pool.
And I came back then to Mine Own, and took her into mine arms, and setthe cloak well about her; and she to cry and to tremble with the shockand disturbance of the thing; but soon to be eased, and ready to laughwith me.And so she was come proper to her happiness again, and I very gentleand joyous with her, for truly my heart had been sick that she had comeso nigh to that horrid danger.And I eased the scrip from me, and opened it, and made her to take twoof the tablets, and she to refuse to eat, save I company her also; andindeed I did be very willing, for truly my belly was alway empty. Andshe to be very glad to eat, because she did be clean now, and to have nomore disgust of herself. And afterward, we drank some of the water. And
[EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE]soon we did be finished, and she to ask for her girdle that I did giveher with the knife, as I have surely told. And she belted the cloak verygraceful about her; and lookt very dear and pretty with her little barefeet; and her hair very lovely upon her shoulders, for she did wearalway in the Gorge the lining of my head-piece, and so had her hair dryand sweet.And, in verity, I did mind now, how that she did look very beautiful inher bath, as I had gone to succour her from the snake; and I to benicely wholesome in this remembering, because of my love, but yet to beknowing that I was sweetly stirred to new things; and did not knowbefore that a maid lookt in the same moment so holy and so human. Andafterward, in odd whiles, I remembered; but never to think overmuch,because that I did feel inwardly that I should be gently wise in suchthings; and you to understand my heart in this, if that ever you haveloved.
[DANGER][WEAPON][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][SURPRISE]And surely, the Maid brought me from my dreamings very sensible, in thatshe had me to stand; and she was gone about me very swift and natty withher pretty fingers, that she ease me of mine armour.And afterward, she bade me to strip and wash, whilst that she keep watchfor me of the Gorge. And she took the Diskos, and leaned upon it, verybrave and proper; but yet, as I do think, with somewhat of roguishnesswithin her, very deep hid, and scarce known unto herself.And I warned her to be very wise with the great weapon; for it did fitonly to fight in my hands, and did be like to cause harm to any thatshould meddle with it or make to use it, save me.
[CONFLICT]And Naani to nod that she did hear me, and to be half in fear of thething, and half to feel that it did be friendly to her; and so to standguard for me; and truly to seem a very sweet and slender maid, despitethe bigness of the cloak; and the great weapon to seem more great in hersmall hands; and to mind me how strong I did be. And surely you shallthink me in conceit; but truly I did be glad to be so strong; and aproper thing for pride, if that there be no scorn for others therein.And you to agree with me in this thing, or to be lacking of sympathy andgood human understanding.Now I washt me, not by going down into the pool; for indeed I did notwot whether there be any more snakes hid there in some other hole. And
[ACTION][CONFLICT][GORE]the way I washt, was that I dipt my head-piece into the hot pool, andpoured the water over me, and rubbed my body very strong with my hands;and there to be, surely, some certain chemical in the water that aidedmine efforts; for the water went very smooth under my hands.And when I was done, I washt my pocket-cloth very speedy in the pool,and wrung it, and did then wipe my body so dry as I should; andafterward I wrung the cloth again, and set it about my loins, and so tobe as proper as I might.And I did call to the Maid that I was proper, and she to come then andkiss me; and she gave back to me the Diskos, and set me that I standanigh to the nearer fire-hole, and so to be that I should guard her, andin the same time be come free of the chill of the Gorge, which was notgreat in that place.And surely I did mean that I help her; but she would have no help in herwork that she did say to be her glad right; but bade me that I to mineown work to be her dear protector, as she did call me. And I to lift
[EMOTION][TRANSITION]that Wilful One into mine arms, a moment, and to give her a very lovinghug, and for that time to have no fear that I harm her, because that Iwas freed of the hardness of the armour about me, as you do know.And surely she to feel very dear and pretty in mine arms, and she kistme the once with a little passion of love; and immediately to want to gofrom me; so that I freed her in a moment, as was ever my way. And shethen to pause a small space off from me, and lookt at me with a light inher eyes, and half to put out her arms that she be taken again intomine; but so to cease, ere she yield to her heart; and turned from meimmediately to the task of the washing.And she took first my body-vest, and washt it very quick and clever inthe pool, and afterward came over by me, and spread it upon the hot flatrock anigh to the fire-hole.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]And she got then my change body-vest from the bundle of her torngarments, where she did put it to be washt on opportunity, even as now;and mayhap to like that it should lie in her bundle with her owngarments, for so, as I do mind, the thought came to me very natural; butshe to say naught to lead me thus; yet to be a very honest and dearMaid, and to have little secret ways of love, as I did perceive, that Idid not be told of.And she washt the second body-vest, and set it to dry by the first; andafterward did likewise with all my garments, and came then to thewashing of her own.And lo! as she spread it also to the drying, there came to mine heartthat the Maid did have only this one rough and thick garment, that didbe the armour-suit, as I have told. And surely it did be dreadful that
[EMOTION][CONFLICT]she have the hardness of that strong knitted and fibrous garment to benext to her dear body, and I to be in comfort with the softness of mybody-vest.And I was all angered in a moment, that she had gone thiswise, whilethat I had been gentled, as it might be. And I bade Naani take thesecond vest to her own use when it did be dry. And she to look upwardfrom where she did turn the garments upon the hot rock; and to mean inthe first to deny me. But indeed she was quick to see that I did betruly in anger; and mine anger to come because that I was hurt that thisdid be, and because that I was shamed that she had gone so rough-clad,the while that I had no thought to the matter. And moreover because that
[EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE]she had known her lack, and did not tell me of the thing.But yet I did have a great tenderness in the backward part of mineanger, because that I perceived all the unselfishness and delight of herlove that did be about this little matter, as you shall see, if you havegone alway with me.But mine anger yet to be something hard, because I did see that I haveneed to watch the Maid, that she put not her dear body to pain, that Imight come unknowing to some little pleasuring or ease, as did be now asI have shown. And truly it did be sweetly done in love; but to besomewise lacking of judgement; and so shall you know somewhat of the waythat I did be angered, and to have understanding with me; but if youhave not, you shall think it to be naught, and that the Maid did needonly that she be kist, and to be shaken a little in playfulness, andwarned to heed that I did be earnest; and mayhap you to be somewiseright, and not to guess far off from the inward deepness of my heart.
[CONFLICT][EMOTION][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE]But yet it doth be verity that I was truly angered, and fit to shakeMine Own, and in the same moment to be utter tender unto her. And surelythis doth be all a contradiction, and the human heart to be a waywardthing, whether it doth be of a man or of a woman.And Naani, as I do think, to have loved the chafe of that rough garmentfor love's sake, and to go very humble and loving, as I lookt at her;but in verity to be never gone from the sweet naughtiness that did bealway in her heart, and to plan even in that moment some new and secretservice unto me, that should be for her quiet joy, and to be hid fromme, until that my wit should come upon it to uncover it. And in verity ayoung man doth want that he whip his maid and kiss her, and all in theone moment. And, indeed, he to have delight in both.
[ACTION][WITCH]And she obeyed me that time, as alway when I did be earnest, withoutmore word. And surely that Naughty One did know how I loved her.And the Maid washt then her torn garments that did be in the bundle, andhad gotten soiled by the slime of the dark part of the Gorge. And sheput these to dry, and afterward washed mine armour and the scrip and thepouch and the cloak-hold, and all such matters of our gear; and so to bepresently done.
[ACTION][TRANSITION]And she was heedful then that she turned the garments upon the hotrock; and afterward did attend to my bruisings. And when she did rest, Ilookt to her pretty feet, and rubbed them very gentle and constant withthe ointment; and surely they did be pretty well; but I to _like_ that Ishould tend them, and to have joy to feel their littleness within mypalms, and surely she did know how it did be with me; for presently shetook her feet inward under the cloak; and I, maybe, to look somethingwoeful; for she put one out presently, when that I did the least expect,and slipt it very cosy into my hand; and surely I kist her naughty toes;and she then to be very sedate.Now, presently, when Naani found the garments to be proper dry, she gavethose to me that were mine, and bid me to turn my back and be drest veryspeedy. And lo! in a little time, when I was nigh done, she came over
and stood before me, and was drest again in the armour-suit, and to lookvery slender and dainty. And she lookt at me, so that I put out myhands, that I kiss her; but she went from me, very proper, and broughtmine armour, and gave me help with it, and alway very grave and quiet;but yet to have naughtiness underneath, as I did believe.And when I was full armed, she took my hand, and set mine arm about herwaist, and she leaned her head against my breast, and put up her lips tobe kist, as that she did be a child maiden; yet when I kist her, she didbe a woman, and to kiss me very dear and loving, and to look at me thenfrom under her eye-lids; and sudden to make a dainty growling, and topretend that she did be a fierce thing that should be like to eat me;and I to be utter feared, as you shall think, and to be scarce able thatI kiss Mine Own Pretty Fierce One, because that I did laugh so hearty,and to be so taken with a surprise that the Maid did show this newplayfulness; and in the same moment to be stirred and waked anew thatshe did be so lovely and graceful in mine arms, and to make her naughtygrowling so pretty that I did be eager that she make it again; but sheto do this playing only as her mood did stir her.And she made then that she would go from me, and I to loose her, asever; and she bade me that I guard her the while that she washt theoutward part of the cloak; for the inward did be clean, and the cloakproof to water; but the outward part to be something needful of washing.
[EMOTION]And surely, when this was made clean, it dried very quick, because thatthe water went not into it; and whilst that it dried, I gave Mine Own anaid upward unto the cave, and afterward I passed up the gear, and thecloak when it did be dry; and so came upward also myself, and broughtwith me a boulder, that I balanced very light in the mouth of the cave,so that it should fall, if that anything toucht it; and this plan you doknow of; for I used it before, as I have told.And truly we did be utter wearied, and the time to be something beyondthree and twenty hours, since last we had slumber. And the Maid had thescrip and the pouch set to be for my pillow, and the bundle of her torngarment to be for her own. And she to have me to my pillow, and to tuckthe cloak about me, and the Diskos to my hand; and afterward to kiss mevery sedate upon the lips, and then to come in under the cloak, with aquiet and lovely happiness, as I did know; and to be gone to slumbervery content and sweet.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][CONFLICT][DANGER]And I waked eight good hours after, with the fizzing of the water inmine ears; and lo! Mine Own did be waked and to make ready ourbreakfast; and I came upward upon mine elbow, to see whether that theboulder did be unmoved; and indeed it was not touched.And Mine Own saw that I was come awake; and she ran to me, very dear andglad, and kist my lips very eager and loving. And surely, as she kistme, I did feel that she had taken again a naughty advantaging of myslumber, and had kist me as I did sleep; but truly I said no word of mythoughts; for I did mind that I should wake sudden one time, and so tocatch her in this, and to call her then Mine Own, and that she did be arogue; and all as you shall know, that have loved.
[ACTION][TRANSITION]And I scolded the Maid a little, in that she had not waked me; but Isaid not that I would attend to the duties that she did heed to; for Iknew that she had joy of these things, in that she did love to do aughtthat should be done unto me. And when I scolded her, she to make but alittle mouth at me, as we do say, and to put her tablets to my lips,that I kiss them, and she to kiss mine; and so to our breakfast.And when we were done, we gat together our gear, and went downward fromthe cave, and began again to journey. And we went eighteen hours thatday, and eat and drunk at every sixth hour, as ever.
[CONFLICT][EMOTION]And in the fourteenth hour, I perceived that I did be like to overtravelthe Maid, though I made alway to have a less speed than did be naturalunto me. And surely then, I took her up into mine arms; and she torefuse, and to be troubled that I should so carry her; for she did thinkthat I was like to be wearied by the task.And I to take no heed to her pretestings; but to laugh gently with her,and to carry her, even as a babe in mine arms; and she to love that shebe in mine arms, if but she be able to have assuredness that I come notto weariness through her. And truly it did be a dear love task, and tobe set unto the needing of mine especial heart.
[RELIEF]And I carried Mine Own then for four hours; and in the eighteenth hourwe were come to that part of the Gorge where did be the ledge where Ikilled the spider, ere I slept, as you shall mayhap to mind. And here Iaided the Maid to climb, and we had the same ledge that night to be ourrefuge; and did sleep very happy and unharmed, and alway with ourspirits set to warn us, if that harm did make to come nigh to us.And we went then through three days of eighteen hours' journey each;and alway I did carry Mine Own, from the twelfth unto the eighteenthhour of each journeying; and this to be very dear unto me, and to giveme a new rejoicing that I did be strong and easy to carry Mine Own; andshe to lie in mine arms very content, when that she perceived how that Idid be so glad to go thiswise and that I had no weariness by thecarrying.And thus I did rest her feet, and wore not her dear and slender bodyovermuch with the vigour of my going; and was abled to make a very goodspeed.
[CONFLICT][DANGER][EMOTION][METAPHOR][PROBLEM][WEAPON][SURPRISE][MONSTER]And Mine Own, this time and that, to make sayings of impudence unto me,and to hide her naughty lips, when that I should kiss them; and to havequaint nestlings unto me, and odd whiles to kiss me very dainty whenthat I did be going thoughtful of the way. And surely never did there beso dear a maid as Mine Own; so that I did go many a mile, and to bescarce that I knew that I was gone any way, because of the stirrings ofmy heart and the content of my spirit.And oft as we did go, there were great scorpions in the path, and oddwhiles they to have no heed to go from my way; but to be so great as myhead, and very fat and lazy, so that surely I kickt a good number, frommy path, even as you shall kick a ball with the foot; and three I burstin this way. And truly it did be well that I had on me mine armour, elsehad they been like to sting me very quick unto death; for they were sogreat.
[SETTING][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]And likewise, in this place and that, there were snakes; but none tocome anigh to me; and I to choose alway the open goings; for I did thinkthere to be many hid snakes and lesser monsters in the dark placesbetween the great boulders. And alway, when the Maid did walk, I to gobefore, that I see clear her way, and this thing to be but a matter ofwiseness, as you shall think.And odd whiles, as I did carry Mine Own, she to talk a little with me ofher memory-dreams of the olden days; and mayhap you to think it strangethat we said not overmuch on this wise; but the way of our journey tohave been so utter bitter, as you have seen; and we to be more of thatfar age, than we did be of this present age; and this present life toseem but a dream of Memory, and we to be set then with the realness ofthat life. And this telling, indeed, to be a plain thing to yourunderstanding. Yet did we have a greater talk to these ends, when that
[METAPHOR][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK]we were come free of the Gorge; but yet, oft there to be an odd sayingand a sweet memory, like to an olden and forgot fragrance of dreams, topass between Mine Own and me. And do you to set your sympathy ofunderstanding with me in this thing, and to know how holy these thingsdid be, and far off, and to hold memory, as a mist that doth shine withgolden lights, that did make an holy pain upon the eyes of the spirit,even as a quiet dawn of this day doth set a pleasure of vague pain uponthe heart.And once, as I did carry the Maid, I saw that she wept a little, veryhusht unto herself; and I to say naught; for I saw that it did be anatural sorrow for her father, and for the dead Peoples of the LesserRedoubt; that did be left for ever unto the desolation of Eternity. Andso, because I did be wise to leave her be, she to be eased presently,and to wipe her eyes, quiet and secret, and mayhap to think that I didnot perceive; and then to nestle unto me; and so to be the more MineOwn.
And about the middle part of the second day, we came past the cave whereI did sleep on the upward journey; and I to tell Naani, and she to lookupward to the cave, and to wish that she might come a moment into it;only that it did be twenty good feet upward, and I to desire that sherun no risk of her dear life, when that there did be no need.And so to go onward; and odd whiles to see strange things a-lurk amongthe boulders; but none to come anigh to us; yet did I keep the Diskosvery ready in my hand, as you shall think; and had mine eyes alway tolook upon every side, and mine ears to be wary; and to use my spiritalway to mine aid.And surely, as we did come lower in the Gorge, the Maid was alla-wondered at the warmness that did grow, and something disturbed in thefirst, by the new thickness, as it did seem, of the air. And she towaste some of the water, because that it did fizz up so quick, even asI, until that she was come used to this newness. And all this to be very
[METAPHOR]plain unto you.And in the end of every journey, we slept eight good hours in a safeplace; and so to go onward again; and the Maid to grow very eager as Idid tell her this thing and that of the Country that we did comedownward unto.And she askt me questions, time and oft, and much I told her, and she tothink upon it with a growing wonder and desire, even as a gladsome childthat hath never seen the sea, and doth be told that it shall presentlybe there. And this to be but to shadow the way that Naani did be; fortruly she did be a very live and eager maid, in all things.
And we to be still within the Gorge, and to go constant by thefire-holes and the fire-pits, and to see the flames leap upward in thisplace and that, so that the mighty walls of the Gorge would show veryplain in an instant; and immediately to come the shadows again, andafterward the leaping of the flames. And so did it be forever. And oftthe muttering of the fire-pits; and oft the utter quiet and the shadows.And this time and that there did be a snake to go by us, and thescuttling of the monster scorpions; and mayhap a moving in the shadowsof the great boulders, that did tell me there went maybe some peculiarmonster in that place; so that I did be very wary, and to have theDiskos alway ready.
[EMOTION]And when the fourth day was come, I showed the Maid, in the sixth hour,the ledge that did be my first sleeping place, when that I was enteredinto the Gorge.Now presently, in the eleventh hour, after that we had gone five hoursin a gloom, there did show afar off a shining; and I caught the Maid,and I pointed; and she also to perceive that it did be surely theshining of the light of that great Country that I did tell upon.And immediately we did begin to run downward, and with sore stumblingsin this place and that; but not to halt us; for we did be so mad as twochildren for the gladsome light.And we came down presently in the twelfth hour of that journey into thewarm light and wonder of the Country of the Seas.
[EMOTION]XIIIHOMEWARD BY THE SHORENow we came presently out of that sad and dreary place that did goinward of the great mountains, and which I have named the Upward Gorge;and we to halt soon between the feet of the mountains, beyond themouth-part of the Gorge.And Naani alway to look every way about her, and to breathe very quick,and her eyes to be gone bright with wonder and the seeing of new things,and the coming of freedom from so great a dread.And she turned, now, and did look upward into the dark of the Gorge, andto spy upon the great mouth thereof, and to be feared then, and must runa greater way downward into the lightness of the Country of the Seas;and to come once more to pause, and to look backward, and with an aweand a relieved soul; and so again to the wonder of the spreaded Countryand the great Sea; and did near to laugh and cry in the same moment,with the amazement and gladness and great astonishment that did be uponher. And she to turn constant this way and that, and to be never ceasedof looking, and of deep breathings of the wide air; for never in thatlife had she been in a broad place of light, as you shall haveperceived.
[EMOTION]And we to feel, both, that there did be no more need to talk husht, aswe did alway in the gloom and narrow dark of the gorge. And surely sheto shout, as a child that doth try an echo; and her voice to go verypretty into the distance, and to be lost afar off in that Country.And lo! in a moment, an echo to come out of the dark mountains to ourbacks; so that we lookt round very sudden; but whether the echo did betruly an echo, or some strangeness, or some unnatural call to comedownward out of the gloom and horror of the Gorge, we did be all unsure;and indeed must run downward a while more, until that we did be allbreathed, and to halt presently where we did feel to be utter free ofthe Gorge and of the strangeness that did seem to our minds, in thatmoment, to lie upward in the darkness of the great mountains.
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][METAPHOR][FLASHBACK][WITCH]And surely we did took about for a flat rock to be for our use, and wecame presently to a place nice to our purpose, that did be yet upwardover the Land; and we climbed up on to the rock and sat thereon to haveour food and drink.And as we eat and drank, we did sit very close and happy; but yet tohave a wise looking about anigh to us, so that we be caught by no dangerof the Humpt Men, or by any other danger that might be.And alway, the Maid did question, and did stare afar over the Country,and to have a shining wonder and joy of the sea, and to be stirred inall her being, so that she was pained with vague and sudden memories,that did be as strange dreams, and all mixt with pleasure and pain. And,indeed, she sudden to weeping, and to need that she be in mine arms,until that she know herself once again; and so to her dear natural joyand way.
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][METAPHOR][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT]And oft did Mine Own speak upon the clear wonder of the air, as it didseem to her; and to me it did seem likewise, that had lived my life alsoin a Dark Land, as you do know.And she to break sudden from her rapture, and to set back her speech anEternity with vague words, and memories so olden and englamoured thatthey did be as moonlight that once hath shone. And in a moment she to beforward again into that far future time and speech, and all her being tobe close unto me, and oft in a solemn silence of the heart.And the greatness of the sea to call unto her with an olden voice, andto half waken her; and I with her to be thus half-wakened, yet had Ibeen not thus as I did come mine outward way; but truly I did stir tothe stirring of the Maid, and all mine olden thoughts that did be mymemory-dreams, to come afresh upon my spirit.
[EMOTION]And so we two to sit there all shaken with dreamings that did concernhappenings of the olden world that did lie upward in that dreadful nightwhich made a mighty and deeply roof over that Country. And surely I amdumb, in that I have no speech to make known to you all the troublingsand stirrings of our spirits that we did know in that moment.And far off, by miles, beyond the feet of the mountain, where went theshore of the sea, upon our left, there was a great mist and steam; andthis to be that mist and steam that I did come through on mine outwardway; and Naani to ask concerning it, and I to tell her so much as Iknew, and how that we must indeed come presently through it, upon ourjourney.And she to be in wonder of the volcanoes that did burn in the sea, andin this place and that of the wide Country, and the height and grandnessto exalt her, and in the same time to give her a strange humbleness ofher mind; so that presently I did take her into mine arms, for I mustkiss her, because that she did be so utter a sweet maiden, and lovelywith interest and naturalness. And truly she to kiss me in turn; and to
[CONFLICT]make her questionings between her kissings; and this to be because shedid yearn for a greater knowing of the Country; but also, as I do halfto think, because she did be sweetly impudent unto me; and this to be ofher joy.And presently, she to kiss me thrice very passionate and warm upon themouth; and immediately to take my shoulders, with her small hands, thatdid seem so pretty upon my broadness and upon the metal of the armour.And she to strive thus that she shake me to a speedier answering; andshe, all that while, to be full of a dear naughtiness, and to need thatshe be kist very hard.And I to answer her; but after mine own fashion which did be a wordbetween each kiss that I gave to her. And she very quick and naughty to
put her hand between our lips; and I then to kiss the palm, that did bein my way, and did be very small and pretty. And she, when I had nothought, to open her fingers very quick, and kiss me through between thefingers, and immediately to shut the fingers, so that I did be stoptfrom the same.And afterward, I made her to stand upon the rock, and I set free herhair over her shoulders; and I took then the boots from her, so that herlittle feet did show bare and pretty. And she, at the first, half torefuse me; but afterward to stand very dear and obedient that I shouldhave my way with her; and to be a little shy, and the more prettybecause of her sweet blushings.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]And surely, when that I had her to my likings, I stept back a littlepace, and lookt at her. And she to look again at me, very quaint andnaughty; and then to turn her about, very grave; and to make pretendthat she did be a dummy figure. And, surely, when she did be come rightround, and to face me again, and had a very sedate look, she stretchedout her pretty foot, all in a moment, and put her pink toes sudden uponmy lips; and I to be so in surprise, that I had not wit to do aught, ereshe had them back swift from me. And she then to make one glad springinto mine arms, and to want that she be hugged, and to be loved verygreat. And I to laugh, all tender; for I loved her so utter, as you do
[CONFLICT][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][DANGER]know; and I to tell her, as you sure likewise to have told your maid,that I wanted a pocket sufficient, that I might have her therein alwayanigh to my heart; and this thing I to say to her, as a man that dothlove, shall say it; and you to know the way of it so well as I. And sheto laugh very mischievous, and to tell me that she should truly tickleme, if that I carried her thatwise; aye and to pinch me, too. And I tohave no answer, save that I shake her, very gentle, but indeed she tokiss me very naughty on the mouth, in the midst of my shaking; andtruly, what shall a man do with such an one.And she then to want to be more sedate and to be set down upon the rock;and she to make me to turn around, so that she should come at the pouch,which did be upon my back.
[EMOTION]And she gat thence the comb that was a fitment, and did comb her prettyhair, and I to sit and talk with her, and to jest, with a heart that didbe so light as it had not been for a great while; for though I did dreadthe Humpt Men and the monstrous animals of the Country of Seas, I hadnot any abiding horror of aught that I had seen in that Country; forthere seemed a naturalness in all things, so that I did have noloathing; neither any fear of an Evil Force.And presently, when that the Maid had combed her hair, she to bind itupon her head; but I to ask that she leave it upon her shoulders,because that it did be so pretty; and she to smile at me, and to behappy to my pleasuring.Now we did be truly sedate, and to set our gear together; and I to putthe boots upon the Maid; and afterward we to begin again to journeydownward into the Country of the Seas.And we went at a good pace; but not to bring us to any great weariness;for it was mine intent that we rest for our slumber upon this side ofthe place where did be the steam of the boilings, that was anigh to theshore of the sea, as you shall mind.
And we at this time to be passing along the feet of the mountains, untothe place of the steam; and to go thiswise for six good hours, and stillto be a great hour off that part; for we went not so fierce as did bethe speed of mine outward way, which was utter strong, as you do mind,that have gone with me in all my journey.And so, when we had walkt six hours, we did be gone something beyond theeighteenth hour of that day's journeying; and to be very ready to ourslumber.Now, presently we found a tall rock, very hard to climb, that had a flattop so great as may be twice my length everyways; and this to be verygood to our purpose. And when we were come safe to the top, we to eatand drink, and presently to sleep, and to have the cloak under us, asdid be the will of the Maid; for the Country did be utter warm and nice,so that we had no occasion for covering.
[EMOTION]And surely, we waked, both of us when that we had slept seven goodhours; and we sat upward, and lookt newly each at the other; and to beas that we did each see the other anew in that good light, and to have afresh joy each in the look of the other. And she to come into mine arms,and to kiss and to need that she be kist; and truly, we both to have ourneed; but yet to be something the more hungry of the other, for thehaving.And Mine Own then to make our breakfast; and the water to fizz verystrong and surprising; and we to eat and drink, and to be utter happyeach with the other, and to talk on this thing and that, and the Maid tolook about, as we eat; and she to look afar off at the wonders and thenewness of the Country to her knowledge; but I to look near, lest therebe any danger that might be anigh.And in a while, Mine Own to draw my gaze to the Mountains that the Gorgecame through. And, in verity, now that I did look in ease, I to see with
her how that they did be truly monstrous, even as a monstrous wall thatdid go upward for ever until that they were gone out of the light ofthat Country, into the dark night of the deathly Upper World, that didbe lost an eternity. And I to mind that I had some vague thoughtsthiswise, on the outward way; but now I to have ease, and the Maid tospeak with, and so to perceive odd matters the more. And I to tell youthis little thing, so that you shall perceive the way that restfulnessdid be upon me, by compare with the Outward Going.And, truly, we had no great speed with our talk and with our eating; butin the end did make somewhat to hurry, because that we did be consciousthat we leaned to slackness. And indeed, we came down then pretty speedy
from the rock where we did sleep; and had forward to our way at a goodpace.And when we had gone a while, we to begin to hear the far hissing of thesteam and the noise of the upward burstings of waters that did boil; andthe sound to be very strange; but I to have heard it before, as you doknow; so that it to trouble me the less than the Maid. And I to assureher; and she to come nigh to me, and thiswise we to enter presently intothe steam.And we went then for more than three hours; and I had the Maid to myback, that I should be the first; and this I did, that she have nodanger to walk into a boiling pool in the mazingness of the steam, whichwas everywhere. And I to be something guided in my path by the shore of
[PROBLEM][CONFLICT][DANGER][SURPRISE][MONSTER]the sea which did be unto our left alway; only that we could see neitherthe sea nor otherwise, except that we go so close that we near into thewater.And, truly, the sea to seem to boil in parts, and there to be hot poolsin all places; so that who should say with ease whether we did go by oneof the great hot pools or by the true sea. And this, our constantpuzzle, shall be likewise to you; and you to perceive how that we did goutter wary.And about us from every part there did come the strange burstings andshriekings and whistlings of the boil of the waters breaking upward fromthe deep world. And odd whiles the sounds to be as of great monsters;
and the earth to shake under us; and other-whiles there to be a hush andonly the steam about us, and somewhere in the distance and uncertainnessa low piping of some steam cranny, very strange and lonesome-sounding.And when it did be somewheres nigh upon the fourth hour, we came out ofthe thick steam; and the pipings and the roarings to be to our rearward;and soon the steam to be gone thin, as but a mist, and the noises to bevery far-seeming; and presently we to be come clear out into the air ofthat Country.And the Maid now to perceive the trees, which did be in great forestsunto our right hand, while that the shore of the sea did go alway uponour left. And she to be utter in wonder of the trees; and to need thatshe pluck branches, and smell of them and look at each leaf; and so tobe all stirred; for never in that life did she to have seen such amatter as those great trees did be; but yet to be all stirred by vaguememories that did seem no more than dreams. And you to think but amoment, and to perceive how the thing did be with her; and you to havebeen likewise stirred, if that you did be so strangely waked in a cornerpart of the heart; though but a little matter to wake you.
Now when the sixth hour did be full come, we made a halt in a wiseplace, and had there our tablets and the water; and afterward, the Maidbid me that I take her unto a warm pool that did be near by, and to askthat I turn from her, but yet to be anigh for her Protector, as I did beever.And so she to wash and to make herself happy with a sweet cleanness thatdid be proper to her; and afterward, when she did be done, she to actwatch whilst I to mine; and to help me in all matters, that she wasable; and truly, I to be happy indeed that she did so have delight toattend upon me and to treat me mother-wise; yet truly with hermaid-heart not all hid, as you have perceived, this time and that.And surely thus did we go alway in these matters; and oft that I havenot space to have told; and oft that you shall remember, if that I do betoo full of other happenings to give heed to tell upon.And afterward we to our journeying again; and to talk upon this thingand that thing; and I to be watchful as we talked, and to tell the Maidthat she keep her eyes wary, but yet not to be of unease.
[CONTEXT][ACTION][PERSPECTIVE]And when we did go thiswise for seven good hours, we were come nighopposed to the bright-burning fire-hill that did be offward in the sea,and had made me a warm light in that time when I did sleep in the tree,as you do remember. And truly, as I shall here mind you, we did be pastseven hours coming to this place, from the part where the steam did be;yet had I gone that space upon the outward way at a speed that wasgreater; but truly I might not set so great a pace to the Maid, save,mayhap, odd whiles; and this thing I beg that you have alway in yourmind, and so to understand why that we did be oft long upon this part ofthe journey and that, by compare with mine outward going.And, in verity, I had set off our hour for food, because that I saw wedid come nigh to the place where the tree did be; and I to know that theMaid should like to eat and drink anigh to that place, and to know thatI did sleep there.And surely I took her to the tree, and when that I told her, she to begme that I indulge her and that we go upward to that branch where I didsleep, and there to eat our tablets.
[EMOTION][TRANSITION]And I to be willing, and to enter into her wishing; for, indeed, therewas no danger in the climb, and I to go alway below her, so that I couldbe surety for her safeness. And we came up to the great branch; and sheto make how we should sit, and I to have to show just where I did lie,and she to look very close, and to see that my weight had surely markedthe hardness of the armour upon the bark; and she then to be upon thatbranch alone, as she did eat and drink; and to look outward at the lightfrom the fire-hill, and to be very husht, and to think, and I not todisturb her with speech.And when she did be done, she gat from the branch, and kist the placewhere I did lie; and lo! in a moment a thought came into her, and shedrew her knife, and cut out a piece of the bark, and put it into herbreast to be for a keepsake; and so to seem somewise contented.
[SURPRISE]And truly, I told her about the great beast, when we were come downagain to the earth; and she to cry out and to show me that there did beyet the mark where the belly of the monstrous beast did brush upon theearth, as it ran, and moreover the broken places of the foot-marks; andshe by this to see how great a beast it did be; but yet did it be alittle thing beside the Slug; only that it did be a thing of horn andhardness of skin, as you have perceived.And truly, I do mind how that the observings of the Maid did bring verykeen to me how that there had past but seventeen days since that I didgo onward from this place; and this to seem very strange and scarcecredible unto me; for I had thought it, somewise, as a great time; andtruly this to be because it was so marked by stress of the mind andgreat happenings; and you to agree in this thing. But yet, also, weshall truly mind that those times that I have called days, did hold oftthe hours of two days, and mayhap three, as you do remember. Now wewent onward then to our journeying; and I to make to carry the Maid, asever, after that she had walked twelve hours, though she did walkthirteen hours this time as you have seen. And she to say that she go
now upon her own feet through the next six hours, and so to ease me fromthe labour that did be needful to carry her.But I to know how that she did be like to be all gone of her strengththiswise, in but a day or two, and we to make the better speed, if thatI keep to my way, and to have her to walk twelve hours of every journey,and afterward to come into mine arms; for, truly, she did be bred lesshardy than I, as you shall think from all that I have told concerningthe Peoples of the Lesser Pyramid; and moreover she was yet somethingweakened, as I did think, by the dreadful month of her lonesomeness andescapings, before that I was come to succour her.And truly, as I did carry her, the Maid did make remark of herwonderment concerning me, in that I did be so hard of my body and set inthe determination of my mind. And, in verity, I did be exceeding strongand of great hardness of body; and mayhap my will did be somewhat thisway also, else do I think I had never borne to come unto Mine Ownthrough so much desolation. And I to smile very happy upon her; for I
[EMOTION]did love that I was so strong, and very truly in delight that Mine OwnMaid did take gladness in this thing. And you to mind how you did bealso in the love-days; and so to have nice understanding of mynaturalness and human pride.And surely the Maid did nestle unto me, as she did talk; even, somewise,as a Child shall come nigh to the Mother, but yet also as a Maid dothlove to be nigh unto her Man, if that she doth truly love. And I to lifther more nigh to my lips; but she to refuse to kiss me, and to be aSweet Impertinence that did lie in mine arms; yet when I did make tolower her again to the way that had her easy to carry, she to slip herpretty face very snug under my chin, and to kiss me there, after her ownfashion; and afterward to be willing that she be as usual into minearms.Now, as I set the Maid again comfortable, it seemed to me that she wassomething tender; and sudden it came to me that mayhap the armour to bevery hard and painful unto her; and I to ask this thing of her, in amoment; and she to see that I would not be put off; and so to tell me.
[CONFLICT][EMOTION][SURPRISE][PROBLEM]And, truly, I was utter angered with myself; and somewise also with her,in that she did not waken mine unthinkingness to this thing.And I set her instant to the earth, and made her to bare her shouldersto me; and truly they did be much bruised where that she had lain so oftin mine arms, against the hardness of mine armour.And I to be so angered that I near shook her, and she to see how I didbe, and that she did be nigh to be shaken, because that I was grown soangry that she should let herself come to this foolish hurt, that yet Idid know was very dear unto her secret heart. And, in truth, she put upher lips to me, very sudden, and with a strange naughtiness, that shehave her own way with me to tempt me from mine anger, that yet she didhalf to like. And, in verity, I near slapt her then upon her pretty
shoulders, but that she ceased from her tempting of me; and instead sheturned her shoulders to me, even as a child, that I button her garmentfor her.And surely, when I had buttoned her garment, she came round unto me, andclosed her hand, so that it did be a little fist, even as I did love herto do, because that it was so small beside my great hand.And she slipt her shut hand into mine; and surely I let it stay within,very quiet, and made not to close upon it, as I did wont. And the Maiddid move her hand around in mine, that she make me to take notice uponher, and to grasp her little fist. Yet I did be very stern, for I was
[EMOTION][SURPRISE]truly angered; and neither did I put her hand from mine, nor made tohold it; but only to let it bide; yet, truly, I to be something stirredin the heart-part by her pretty ways.And in a little while, she took her hand from out of mine, and did havedaring to be cold unto me. And mine anger then to be quaintly renewed,and to think that she did well need to be whipt. And she made a naughtyand foolish impudence upon that which I said to her; so that presently Idid say that she did need such as should make her to heed her manners;but yet, as you shall conceive, I to know inwardly all that time howthat even this true naughtiness did not stir me to proper anger; butmore that it made me masterful and to lack not that I make her to knowtruly that I did be her Master; and in the same time to be strangelytouched in a very deep and secret place of my heart. And truly love doth
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][CONFLICT]have strange actings upon the heart.And the Maid to ask me in a very saucy fashion that did be intentionedto anger me, what I did mean that she to need. And truly I said that shedid go the way to earn that she be flogged like any boy, and I to meanactual all that I did say, which doth something amaze me now; but, as Ido know, I yet to be constant stirred inwardly by her beloved quaintnessthat did be alway so dainty, even when that she did mean her naughtinessto be truly to anger me.And lo! when I told the Maid this thing, that she did well go to earn a
sharp reproof, she turned in a quick instant, and came close to me, alltender and small and to need to be nigh to me. And she slipt both herclosed hands into the one of mine, and truly they did be little fists.And because I could be no more stern with Mine Own, I put mine arm abouther, and she did nestle to me, so that all my being did want to be ashield about her.And she to hark very quiet and humble to my counsellings; and in theend did be so strangely husht that I lookt down to where her pretty facedid be hid against mine armour, as she did love to do, when that I didbe those odd whiles a little stern with her. And I held her face away
from mine armour; and surely she did be smiling, very quiet and naughty;so that I perceived that she did be good only for that time, and did belike to show again this wrongful and impudent spirit. Yet I not then tobe in trouble of the future; but to hope only that I do wisely, if thatshe show again this waywardness. And, truly, I to perceive now that Idid be very young; but, anywise, as you do know, I to act alway from thenatural telling of my heart.And I shook Naani a little, for this naughty spirit which did not begone from her. For I perceived that my manhood had but stirred the woman
[CONFLICT]in her to that strange quick humbleness that had seemed to be aquenching of her wayward unwisdom; and truly it had not been stilled,but only sunken for a little moment in the uprising of her dear nature,which had responded unto me.And the Maid to look at me from under her lids, as I did shake her withgentleness; and I to know that Mine Own did be a wondrous maiden, fullof all life and spirit, and to be held wisely and to be loosed wisely,all as did be for the best to bring out the uttermost of her goodnesswhich did be in all her being, and to be very lovely; and to make mefeel as that I did be a giant that held a white flower very tender; butI to feel also that I did be her Master. And this mayhap you tounderstand, if that you look into your hearts.And by all my telling, you to know that I did be very dainty with MineOwn Maid that did be all of daintiness; but yet I to be masterful, asdid be my nature, and a very proper way it did be with the Maid, so thatshe did be alway reasonable in the main; and this to come out of herlove, which did have pleasure to know that I did be Master unto her, allin the same while that she did fight to show that I did be otherwise.
[EMOTION][ACTION]And truly, and in part by this same showing, you shall perceive that hernaughtiness to come likewise from her love, and the way that my naturedid work upon her.Now I to shake the Maid very gentle, as I have said, and with much thatdid be of play, but in the same wise there to be also somewhat of tenderreproof. And surely, that naughty maid to spring very light upon hertoes, and had kist me sudden and dainty upon the mouth, before that Idid wot.And I to put mine arm about her, and to give her a little hug; andimmediately then to matters that did be practical; for I was eager tohave come across that stony part of the journey, that did be before us,as you do know, before that we look for a place for our slumber. And
this eagerness of haste to be, because of the great bird things which Ihad seen to go bounding over that waste, when that I was upon mineoutward way.And, surely, after that I had thought a little moment, I bid the Maidthat she dress in her torn garments, so that these should be over thetop of the armour-suit, and thiswise to make a soft thickness upon thetop of the armour-suit, that should act for a cushion between minearmour and her dear body.But indeed, the Maid would nowise to do this thing; and I not to makeher, because that my heart perceived how it did be with her. And herreasons to be someways mixt, as doth be proper in all humans, and themore so when that it doth be a maid that hath reasons, as you to know,if that you have ever held such dear perverseness in your arms.And she, as I could know, to be strangely in love that her gentle bodybe bruised by the hardness of mine armour; and if this might not be, sheto be not wishful that she wear her torn clothing upon her neat suit andso to seem careless and to lack to be dainty in mine eyes; for, indeed,she did be alway to wash herself and to make tidiness; and she to have away now that she did set the armour-suit upon her, that had it to seemdifferent, and she to have set a little sprig from the trees upon herbreast, and in her girdle, and so to seem the more of a maid; and surelya man doth know and love these things; but not alway to have fullknowing how that they be done. And, indeed, you to be likewise with me
[CONFLICT][WITCH]in this thing. And we all to think we know, but somewise to be justa-lack when that it doth come to the proof.And, in verity, the Maid to find a way that she be eased of the hardnessof the armour; and I to have come to the same thing in the same moment;but truly I do think she had been able to think upon it a long while, ifthat she had been so desired.And truly, this was but that I fold the cloak very thick across minearms and breast, and to take her then into the little nest that did beprepared.
[EMOTION]And, surely, now that the Maid might no more have her secret wish thatshe lie close against mine armour, she to be helpful, and to have thecloak folded so in a very quick while; and so to be into mine armsagain; and we to be once more upon the journey, and she to nestle to me,as that she did hunger to be nigh to me; and she to talk with me, oddwhiles, and odd whiles to be silent.And once, I to think that she wept a little; and to know that she did belike to think upon her father and her own Peoples; but she to have herface turned to me, so that I could but guess upon this thing; and shevery soon to be husht again of this sorrow, and to lie content in minearms.And once, when that I had carried her for three hours, she to ask methat I kiss her; and truly I did kiss her, very gentle and withreverence, because that my heart did understand the holiness that did bein her heart in that moment.And, surely, as I kist her, she to kiss me very tender; and I to knowthat some olden memory did be like to stir in her. And in a moment, sheto take her lips from mine, where she had let them to nestle very light,and did whisper mine olden love-name; and I then to look at her, and hereyes to shine as the olden stars that did shine in the olden summers.
And I to be too shaken even that I kiss her. But she to put her armsabout my neck, and to look steadfast into mine eyes. And immediately,after that she had lookt awhile, and I to have ceased from walking, sheto put her hands upon each side of my face, within the metal of minehead-gear, where the guards did come down at the sides; and she to kissme very sober upon the lips; but yet to mean utter by that kiss. And Inot to return the kiss; for I saw that it did not be her need.
[FLASHBACK][MONSTER]Now, in the beginning of the fourth hour, as I did go with the Maid, Ito see afar off one of the half-bird monsters, that I did see beforeupon this place where there did be naught save great stones and bouldersfor a great way that did be many miles.And truly, I to hide very swift with the Maid, where two great bouldersdid come together; and surely the bird-creature to go past at no greatway, and to go with a great bounding, that did be half of flight andhalf of leaping, as that it did be too weighty in the body to make tofly proper.And, indeed, I to have a sudden memory how that there did be a picturein some book that I did read in the Mighty Pyramid, where it did showsuch a bird-thing as this; and to make remark in the book that thesethings had been seen no more in the Night Land for a score thousand ofyears, or more; and to be extinct, as we do say.But, indeed, now I do think that they did be come downward to that warmCountry, a great while gone, and so to have new life and to breedthrough a great age, and this way to have set a pattern unto the Humans.
[TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE]And, in verity, it might be that in some age that did be far after thattime, the Humans to find some way to journey from the Pyramid, and tobuild a new Refuge in that deep Country; and mayhap the Humans thiswiseto have a new space of life, after that all the Night Land did be deadand lost in the bitter frost of Eternity. But this, indeed, to be nomore than an odd thought; for how might any great multitude pass theMonsters; and I to ask that you take it for nothing of fact, but only asof my suppositions; and thiswise to come back again to happenings.Now, when the bird-thing did be gone a long way off, I to go forwardagain with Mine Own, and to have a new care, and to look very swift andfrequent everyway.And, truly, it did be as that the creatures did inhabit that part of theCountry; for in an hour after that, I to see a good score. And, I to
[DANGER][CONFLICT][MONSTER]free the Diskos from my hip, and to have it ready in mine arms besidethe Maid; and so to journey.And many times I to have to hide with Mine Own, and to crouch low amongthe rocks and the boulders; and this way to escape free of all for agreat while.Yet, when that the fifth hour did be nigh gone, I heard a noise suddento my back, as we did go over a clear space. And, in verity, there didbe one of the monsters that came upward over certain rocks that were tomy rearward; and surely it to have been stayed hid there, or resting,and to have heard us or to have smelled us; but anywise then to haveknowledge of us, and to come with low and brutish heavy boundings, verylumbersome, after us.
[ACTION][TRANSITION][CONFLICT]And I lookt everyway in a moment; but there was nowhere any shelteranigh. And the Maid to leap sudden from mine arms, that I be free withthe Diskos; and I to look swift to her, and to see that she have herknife ready in her hand, that she might chance to aid me. But surely Imight not fight in ease of mind, if that Mine Own did be needless indanger; and I caught her very quick by the waist, and set her upon theground between my feet. And she to make half to refuse; but I to have notime for explaining, and to be sharp that I have her safe; so that Igave her a little shake that did sudden to make her feel the strength inme; and she then to be instant quiet in my hands, and to let me that Iset her upon her face, and to cast the thick cloak above her; and in amoment to be stood over her, and to set down the visor of minehead-gear, lest that the bird-monster strike me in the face.
[ACTION][EMOTION][CONFLICT][DANGER][MONSTER]And surely, the bird-thing did be scarce an hundred good paces off; andto make two lumbering and monstrous bounds, and to come at me.Yet, truly, it made sudden a pause, because that the Diskos did roar andsend out fire, as I made it to spin; but in an instant the great thingto come in at me upon the left side, and to strike me very hard with thebill, that did be so long as mine arm, and had surely gone through mybody, if that I had been naked. And the bill of the monster rang uponmine armour; and it smote me twice thiswise, so that I staggered verysick and shaken. But in a moment, as it made to draw off, that it shouldcome the more hard upon me, I swung the Diskos very sure and quick, andI smote the Bird-thing above the place where the great seeming-leathernwing did join upon the right side, as it should be the shoulder of theBird-monster. And, in verity, the monster gave out a mighty squarking,
[DEATH][ACTION][MURDER]and went backward this way and that, and beat all about upon the stones,and did strike with the great bill at the place where it did be hurt.And I heeded that I end it swiftly; and I ran in upon it, and thecreature to strike at me with the great bill, very savage. But I jumptspeedy to this side, and again to that, and so in a moment to havechance to come in surely. And truly I split the skull of theBird-thing, so that it died very quick and was gone from pain.
[EMOTION]And the Bird-creature lay all spread upon the stones and the rock ofthat place; and surely it did be as that it were leathern, and madesomewise as a bat doth be of this age, in that it did have no feathers.And, truly, it lookt mighty, where it did be spread; and indeed the bodyto be full so big as the body of a young horse; and the bill to be verydeadly and sharp and cumbrous, as you to have guessed. And I to be alland utter thankful that it did be there, dead, in the stead of mine ownbody. And the thing yet to twitch and stir a little, as the life did gofrom it.
[TRANSITION]And surely I was back then very speedy to the Maid, and she to bekneeled upward to watch me. And I took her into mine arms, and looktwell about; and made then forward again.And about the middle part of the sixth hour of crossing that rocky land,I saw that we did draw near unto the shallow river, that you shall mindI came over, after that I had done with the olden flying ship. And inall that time, since the Bird-monster to come after us, I had seen buttwo more, and they a great way off, so that I guessed that I was comebeyond that part where they did go very frequent.
And I to wade over the river, and to carry Mine Own upon one arm, thewhile that I did sound my way with the staff of the Diskos; and truly Icame across very easy, save that I did have to go around somewhat, wherethat the river did seem to have a deep place.And when that we had crost the river, it did be full one and twentyhours since that we slumbered, as you shall know, if that you but counta little; for you do mind that we spent a certain time within the tree,as I have told; and this not to have been proper counted into the timeof our journeying.And surely, the Maid to have been very quiet, since that I did show mystrength a little to her, when that I made her to lie, that she be safefrom the bill of the Bird-monster. But she not to be anywise in angerupon me; but only, as I do think, that the woman in her did be somethingfresh waked unto me; and she to be very content that she be quiet inmine arms.Now the place that we were come to, was much spread with boulders; butyet to have the beginnings again of the forests, as you to remember; forI to have made some small remark of the land in this part, upon mineoutward way. And we lookt about for a fire-hole, that I should dry my
lower garments; and truly, we had not past many in a great while; but weto be in fortune, that we came soon upon a little fire-hill that did beno more than so high as a man, and to have the rock all hot about; sothat this did be a good place to our purpose.And I kist the Maid, and set her down out of mine arms; and when that Ihad lookt well about, and seen that there did be naught to our sight togive us to fear, the Maid to help me with mine armour; and afterwardwith my garments, and to ease me all ways that she could think of withhelpfulness. And she set the garments of my lower parts to dry, andwhilst that they did be drying, she to make ready the water and thetablets, and to have me to sit beside her, in my body-vest and gear, andwe to eat and drink very comfortable in the warm hollow that wassomething anigh to the small fire-hill.Now, truly, I did be very hungry that time, and indeed to be alway so,for the tablets did be very unfilling to the belly, as you do well knowfrom my tellings. And when that I did be finished, I saw that the Maid
lookt at me somewise oddways, and sudden she to come into laughter, andaskt me whether that I did be very empty; and in the same moment thereto be a wondrous dear look within her eyes; so that I perceived thatthere went a mother-note under her impudence.And she to yearn, as I could know, that she have some way to feed me;but truly there did be no way, for we thought not to make to slay aughtfor our purpose, and we did be feared that we eat any root or plant,lest that we be ill. And this to seem strange to my spirit of this ourage, but to be natural unto that; so that I do think I did be so longbred from the primal obtaining of food, that I did be all lost to thatwhich should seem natural unto the peoples of this early age of theworld; though we truly to think that the world doth even now be old; andthis to have seemed a true thing unto every age that ever did live.Now, beside that we did lack somewise to think serious that we slaysomething to eat, in that the tablets did actually suffice to ourstrength, I to believe that there did be some other reason that I doforget, and mayhap never to have thought plain upon; but which to be setwithin me as an instinct, as we do say; and this to mean, if that I tryto set it in other words, that the tablets did keep the body and thespirit in such condition that the Forces of Evil did have the less powerto act upon us.
Yet, have I no remembering that I was taught in the preparation that Ieat naught, save the tablets; and this mayhap never to have been setupon me; but to have been as a thing that doth never need to have beentold; even as you shall not tell a grown man in this Age that he shallrefrain from dung, and eat only wholesome matter.And truly, I to hope that I have made this thing somewise clear untoyou; for, indeed, it doth be something hard to set out; for every Agehath the subtleties peculiar to that Age; and these to be hard to theunderstanding of other Ages, but yet to seem plain and utter natural,even without thought, unto the Peoples of the Age.And surely all this to be plain to you, and to be over-plain; for, inverity, I tell to you, and over-tell, until that I should be weary; andmayhap you to be the more so. And, indeed, I not to blame you; but onlyto hope that your understanding, which doth mean also in general yourhearts, doth be with me all along my way. And, indeed, this my tale to
be not easy told.And, in verity, I to be back now unto the Maid a-laugh upon me, and inthe same moment deeply loving and a-lack that she could not feed me, andI to laugh with her, and to have understanding with her, as you to know;and, indeed, I to have an heart that doth be made someways natural untounderstanding; so that even though I be dead when you read this, mytale, you to feel that we be friends, and to know that could I meet withyou in pitiful trouble, I to have understanding and love to you, if thatyou be not utter brutish; and even-so, I to be sorrowful that you shouldbe brutish, and to have understanding, in that I to know that bydevelopement you to become wise unto sweetness and charity, and in lovewith all dear things, and kind pity of the rest. And thiswise you to bein human sympathy with me, because that you do feel that I be honestwith you, and somewise even now to your elbow, as you read. And this tobe writ now, and you mayhap not to be born a great while yet; but in theend to read and to have understanding with me, and to know how I didlove Mine Own. And so we to go forward again, the closer, in that we do
[EMOTION][METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION]be the more knit in dear human sympathy.And surely the Maid kist me very nice on the lips, and did promise againhow that she should make me a great meal when that we did come to ourMighty Home; and, indeed, as she to say, she to join with me, and weboth to be naughty gluttons for that once. And, surely, I laughed gentlyat the Maid, because that she should be so dainty a glutton; but for mypart, I to feel that I could eat an horse, as we do say in this Age.And by that we had eat and drunk and talked awhile, and lookt oft about,so that we know that no brutish thing came near, to our hurt, the Maidto tell me that my garments did be dry; and she then to give me aid thatI dress very quick; and afterward she to help me with mine armour, thewhich she did wipe after that we had eat and drunk; and she to have hadjoy that she do this thing, and all things for me; and to have used apart of her torn garments to this end.
And so, truly, I to be clothed and armed very speedy, and to feel easedand the more sure in my mind; for in verity, I was alway in unease, whenthat I did not be ready that I be able to meet any horrid Brute thatshould be like to come upon us.Now, when that I did be into mine armour again, the Maid to set thescrip and the pouch upon me, and all the while I scarce to be loosed ofthe Diskos, as ever. And we then to our way, which did be that we find aplace proper to our slumber.And when that we did be gone all-ways, and no cave proper to our sight,we found a great tree, that did be set off alone, and had a plenty ofbranches; but none that did be near to the bottom-part.
[ACTION][TRANSITION][WITCH]And surely, I gave the Maid a lift, and held her up so far as mine armsdid go, so that she might stand upon the palms of my hands, and besteady against the trunk of the tree; and she thiswise to have a holdupon a branch, and so to go upward.And, truly, when that she was safe, I loosed one of the straps from thepouch and the scrip, and I cast this up to the Maid, and she set itstrong about the branch. And when I had caught the downward end, I wentupward very easy; and afterward took loose the strap; and this way wedid be something safe, as you shall see.And we climbed upward then, and so came to a part of the tree where thebranches did be very thick together; and we made here a place for ourslumber, and the Maid set the cloak over the branches that did be soclose, and afterward we lay down; but first I set the strap about herwaist, and thence to a branch, and she to refuse sleep until that I belikewise; so that we did be both very safe from any fall.
And she kist me, and we then to our slumber, and very weary; for it didbe two and twenty hours, by this, since that we had sleep.Now we had eight hours in which we slept utter; and we both to awake, asit did seem in the same moment; but truly, I to think that Mine Own didbe wakeful before that time; for, indeed, as she put her arms verydainty about my neck, that she kiss me, I did have a quick and suddenknowledge that I had been kist oft in my sleep, and this to have beenbut a little while gone. And surely, it did seem to me that Mine Own didhave a sweet and contented Mischief inward of her eyes; but yet she tobe very sedate outward, and to kiss me loving and dear, and then we toour breakfast, upon the cloak.And afterward, I climbed to the topmost branches of the tree, and looktwell over the Country all about; but there was no brutish thing to mysight in any place, neither near nor far.
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT]And I came down then to the Maid, and told her how that there wasquietness of life all about. And we had our gear together, and wentdownward to the earth, and I to help Mine Own, and this way she to besafe.Now, as we went forward upon our journeying, I perceived that the Maidhad a wayward air; and truly, I thought that she did have her heart allset toward naughtiness and mischief; and in the same moment that I wasin this belief, I did know in mine understanding that this did springfrom the workings of my nature upon the nature of Mine Own Maiden.And Naani to walk, in the first, beside me, and to have no word for me,because that she did be so filled with the stirrings of her naughtiness,that did be in the same moment very sweet unto me, and yet to waken allthat did be masterful within me. And she to be that she did know, and
to delight, in her secret heart that she waken that which did bemasterful in me; but yet in the same moment to be strong determined thatshe be not mastered by me. And surely this to seem contrarywise in thewords; but to be clear to the heart, if indeed you have ever been lovedby a dear maid of an high spirit.And above all this, the Maid did be filled with a love for me, that didbeat and dance in all her being; and this in truth to overweigh all; butyet from this same thing her dainty naughtiness to be born, because, asI did say, my manhood to stir all her nature up-wise in sweet troublethat did be half of rebellion, and half that she did ache that she beclose unto me in mine arms.And, in verity, you to be with me in all these things, if that you havehad the love-days beside a dear and dainty maid, of an high and pure andnatural spirit; so that if you be old these days, even but the lightmerriment of a passing maiden to bring a pain of wonderings and goldenmemories upon your heart.And presently, I saw that Mine Own put a little space between us, as thenaughtiness did work in her, as my heart to know; and she to be offwardfrom me a little. And she still to have no speech with me; but in a
little to begin that she sing in a low voice; and to have her prettybody very upright and lithesome, and to go forward with a wondrousdainty swing, so that my heart told me that she did all be stirred withsmall thrillings of defiance unto me, and with thrillings of love; andshe to have the triumph of her Maidenhood and of her Womanhood, as itwere both to contend in her and to thrill upon her tongue, and to showout the lilting and pretty warfare of her spirit that did go dancing anddearly naughty in her breast.And surely I went, very lifted in my heart, and astir; for it did bewondrous to me that this lovely Maid did be so utter mine. And to seebut the way that she set her feet to the earth, and the way that she didlift them sure and dainty; and the way that her body did be poised, andthe way of her head; and the way of her naughtiness and the sweetnessand the love that did be wrapt in with all, did make me want that I haveher in mine arms.But yet, I not to do this, because that in the same time that she did sostir me to love and admirings, she to set somewhat else in me atvariance, so that I did half to feel stern with her, for I perceivedthat she had that naughtiness then within her, that she did be like tohave a real intent of impertinence unto me, so that she should benaughtily outrageous, and to have no heed to my advisings, neither untomy desires, unless that I set my hand upon her, to _make_ her to obey.And truly, you that have had dear maids, shall follow mine explainings;but unto others, I know not whether they shall understand, until theytoo have been possessed of One that shall set all their heart adrift,even as this One that did be Mine Own.
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][GHOST]And sudden, I to know that Naani did change from her low singing unto anolden air that had surely not been heard in all that eternity. And inverity, for a little while, I not to know why that it did so shake allmy heart; nor what it did be; nor whether that I had truly heard itbefore, or only to think so.And, surely, it did be as that the silence of the olden moonlit worlddid steal all about me; and sudden, I to know that the Maid did sing anolden love-song of the olden world, and to go halting a little as shesang, because that the words did steal something odd-wise through thefar veils of her memory, even as a song doth come backward out ofdreams.And I to feel all my blood to seem to tremble in my veins, and my throatto be troubled, as with vague sobs that did be the ghosts of forgottentears. And the dim sorrow that had come so swift and strange upon me, tobe likewise steeped in golden mists of the love that I once did love;and the glamour to be come all fresh upon me, and I to know in thatmoment how much we do forget, even when that we do believe that we haveall memory and all sorrow within our hearts.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION]And I lookt unto the Maid, something dimly, because of the way that Idid be; and I perceived in a moment that Mine Own did weep as shewalked; but the less with pain than with the strange anguish of Memory,that doth have in it Tenderness and Sorrow and Love and all that HathBeen and all that Did Never Be, and all to make a Vale unto the Spirit,where doth be both a dim greyness and a warm and everlasting light, andan utter speechlessness, and the low and far music of forgotten songs,that do come downward over the shadowy mountains that do be builded ofYears and Forgetfulness, and yet made to be seen with the light of thatour Memory, which doth cast so many husht shadows.And surely, as I did say, the Maid did weep as she went; but not to becast down; but rather that she held her head upwise, as that she didwalk in a glory. And the song to come oft-broke, and oddly, and to sether voice to little human quiverings, as her memory did shake her sweetspirit unto tears afresh; and she to walk with her pretty head upheldand as that she did go in a Triumph; and the tears to come downstrangely upon her face, and all her soul to be there, pure andwondrous, and in the same time both troubled and glad.And this thing to be very dear and amazing; and she to be as that shenot to know then that she sang; but as that she did be lost in herthoughts, as we do say, and this to have come sudden upon her, out ofall her upliftedness of spirit, that had been like to make her very openunto all subtile and subtle powers of thought and inward stirrings, asyou shall think.
And again the song to come full-remembered, and fresh, as that thisEternity did be but the yesterday of that moment. And Mine Own to beall in a sweet madness with those half-dreamed memories, and the wonderand pain of all that no man hath ever said, and that shall be neversaid; and of the utter lost years, and all that hath been lost, and allforgotten greatness and splendour, and the dreadfulness of parting, andthe loveliness of beautiful things that do be hid in the abyss of theyears.And it did be sudden to my quickened fancy, that there did be low echoesall about us, of the voices of dear beautiful ones that have died; forso did memory set a strange and lovely mystery about my spirit in thatmoment, that I did be all shaken so much as Mine Own. And I to be asthat I drew my breath anigh to tears, and did be there with Naani amidthe quiet spareness of the trees and the rock of that part of the land;but yet did be to see half dimly that I stood within a light, even asthe light that doth be the wonder of olden sunsets; and I to be, in thesame time, both _that_ man and _this_ man that now doth write; and tohave beside my spirit but one maid, that I did lack to know whether Isay to her Naani or Mirdath; for though the two that have been Mine Owndid be different-seeming to the eye, there to be but the spirit of onemaid beside me in that moment.
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][METAPHOR][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE][FLASHBACK][PROBLEM][CONTEXT]And surely, I did be there, all shaken unto the seeing of visions, as itdid seem; so that the Land about me to have grown half as that it didlack that it be real unto my sight, because that I lookt inward untoLands that did be of Memory. And lo! in a moment this to go; and I to bein that Country of the Seas, and to look newly unto Naani, and she to goas I have told; and there to be the lonesome trees and the rocks in allparts for a great way about.And sudden, as I lookt at Mine Own, she to come round unto me, and sheheld out her arms, and did gaze at me with such a love, as that she weretransfigured, and to need strangely that she be in mine arms; andsurely, I to an holy need that I have her unto me, because that, afterall, there did be no wonder so great as that wonder, that when all didbe said I did have Mine Own, after that all Eternity had nigh past.
[EMOTION]And, in verity, we ran each to the other, and did be silent, becausethat there was no speech of words by which we could say aught of allthat did be in our hearts. And truly you to be with me in understanding;for you too, mayhap, to have suffered thiswise of dumbness; even if thatit hath not been so great. But yet to make you to know.And presently, we grew quiet in the spirit; and Mine Own to come backagain to her joyousness, and to go beside by me, as we made forward.
And presently, Naani to begin that she look at me with dear impudencesagain, that did be very sweet unto me; but yet to be like to lead untodefyings.And truly, by these things shall you know the spirit of Mine Own Maid;and there to be none to me that ever did be like her. But, indeed, youto think thatwise of the maid that you did love; and all the world to bethinking each these thoughts of one dear maiden that doth be the onemaid in all the round world.And this to be the lovely niceness of the human heart; and I not to haveany grumble thereat; but yet, surely, you shall say that this Maid thatdid be Mine Own, did be very dear and lovely. And, in verity, I to show
[DANGER][CONFLICT][EMOTION][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE]my human heart in this thing; for you likewise to want that I think yourMaid to have been just so dear, and the more so. And indeed we ever tobe going these ways; and to have good comradeship of understanding,because that we have all loved and suffered joy and had utter belief ina dear One.And surely a defyingness to come presently into the way that the Maiddid go, and she to walk a little offward from me; and truly I lookt ather, both with love and yet with somewhat that did be to reprove hergently, and all in the same moment that she to make my heart stirredwith her sweet naughtiness.And she to look sudden at me; and to be that she half to intend to runto kiss me; but also that she be minded in the same moment that she setherself up impertinently against me. And, in verity, she made me to
[TRANSITION][CONFLICT]harden my nature a little, as manhood doth make a man to do; and thisbecause of the rebellion that I knew to be in her; and she likewise toknow. But she hid her eyes, when that I shook my head, half with playand half with earnest; and was then impudent unto me; and gone from thatin a moment to her pretty singing, and her naughty walking apart. Butshe no more to sing an olden love-song.Now, in a while, we past a basin of rock, in a place among the trees;and there was a warm spring bubbling in the rock, and the basin to befull of water, very warm and with some smelling of chemistry.
And the Maid told me that she would wash, and I to think it a good placefor that end. And when I had tasted the water, I found that it did seemsmooth and proper for our intent, as that there did be a verity of analkali in it.And truly we washed, and after that I was done, the Maid bid me that Iturn my back; and I to do this, and she to mock me very naughty whilstthat I could not see her, and to seem very quiet; for indeed, I heard nosplashings of water, though I stood off from her a long while, and shealway to say naughty things unto me, as that she did mind truly to haveme angered; for, indeed, she did have a plain intent that she mock atme, and to ease not her wit. And surely, after that I had stood a greatwhile, I askt the Maid when that she did be like to be done; but she tosay that she was nowise ended of her toilets. And I knew very sudden
that she made foolishness upon me also in this matter; and I turnedupon her, and lo! she did be sitting upon a little rock, very sedate,even as when she had bid me turn from her; and to have made no moreforward, but only to have been there at ease, that she keep me turnedaway to please her naughty mood, and all the while have a double libertyto have impudence upon me.And, in verity, I did be a little angered; but scarce that I did knowit; for I did love her very great, and was stirred inwardly with herdearness and that she did look just that-wise that I knew not whether Ito need to kiss her, or to shake her; and truly, how should I know; formy heart did ache that I have her to mine arms; but my brain to say thatshe did go over-far in the joke; and truly you to see that I did not beunreasonable, neither to be lacking of grace; for indeed I do think thatI was swayed all-ways, because that I saw all the dear way that herpretty nature did work; and to conceive of her mood and to understandand be stirred; but yet to shape a little in my manhood unto hardening,and in my judgement unto sternness.Yet, truly, I scolded Mine Own with no more than a little jesting, anddid be nice and gentle with her, because she did be so dear, and I toknow just-wise her mood and the cause and working of it.
[CONFLICT]And I told her that I did love her, and that she hasten now and let usagain to the journey. But, indeed, she only to make a face at me, sothat I did be near like to shake her unto sedateness. And she then to beboth merry, and a rogue, as we do say, and to stop her ears and again tosing very gleeful; and all so that she might not hear aught that I said.And surely she lookt a very dainty Rebellious One.
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT]And I went then straightway to her, and took her hands from her ears;and I kist her pretty ears very gentle that I not to deafen her. And Ikist her lips as she did sing; and afterward shook her, that she be notsuch a sweet Torment. But this to have no success that way; for she onlyto put out her toes to be kist; for her foot-gear was off from her feet.And, indeed, I laughed, even as I made to frown; and truly I kist herpretty toes, and tried then to coax her to go forward something speedywith her hair, and to be ready to the journey. But she only to sing, and
[CONFLICT][EMOTION][ACTION][PERSPECTIVE][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][DANGER][TRANSITION][CHARACTER][CONTEXT][EXPOSITION][CHARACTERIZATION][SETTING]to refuse to be sedate.And, in verity, in the end, I caught her up in mine arms, and had herbundle in my hand, and so went off with her very sudden, with her hairall loose upon me in a lovely and soft shining, and her feet bare asthey did be.And this action I made, because that I was grown truly a little sternwith Mine Own; for, indeed, she did half to need that she be whipt untoproperness, as you shall think, that have seen how she did be thiswiseonly because that her nature did be stirred strangely, and her Womanhoodand her Maidenhood to be all unto war, and in part to make a rebellionagainst me that she did know glad to be her true Master; but yet she tobe thus, even though she did be so glad.And this to act so that she did be in the same moment both sweet andwise and yet to show a dainty foolishness and a true naughtiness thatdid make me to feel somewhat of a real anger; but yet did have me toknow that all my being did be stirred by her; so that I did think withone thought that she did be very foolish, and with another that she didbe lovely wayward.
Now, when that I took the Maid up so quick, and made off with her, sheto give a little gasp and to submit to me with a quick humbleness; butimmediately, she to regain her courage, and to be outraged of me. But,indeed, I took no heed, only that I was like to shake her; and did knowalso that her hair did be wondrous pretty upon mine armour. And she soonto lie very quiet and easy in mine arms, and to be demure.And I to have a half knowledge of somewhat amiss; but yet to have nosureness, neither to think much upon this vague feeling.
And when that I had gone a good mile, she to put up her lips to be kist;and I to kiss her very loving, for she was so dear. And she then to say,very ordinary like, that I should do wisely now if that I went back forher foot-gear, which truly I had lacked thought to notice, when that Idid pick up the Maid.And I saw that she had known this thing all that while, and had madethat mile of carrying all a waste and a foolishness, because of thenaughty rebellion which did be in her. And lo! I set her instant to the
[ACTION][WEAPON][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][DANGER]ground; and she gave out a little cry as she saw that I did be gonesomewise hard and stern with her.And indeed I pulled a small branch from a tree that did be near, to befor a switch as you shall whip a boy with; and I held her with my lefthand, and in verity I laid the switch thrice very sharp across herpretty shoulders, that she know all that she did need to know. And sheseeming to be ceased in a moment from her perverseness, and did nestlevery quick unto me, that had whipt her; and did need that she bewondrous nigh unto me. And, truly, how shall even a young man flog suchan one.
And the Maid to be very husht against mine armour, and to resist that Ilook into her face that did be prest so anigh me. But presently, I useda little and gentle force, and so to look into her face somethingsudden. And truly, that One did be smiling very naughty and dainty toherself; so that I perceived that I had not truly whipt her enough; butyet I could harden my heart no more at that time; for, in verity, theredoth be a strange half-pain in the bosom, if that you have to flog amaid that doth be utter thine, and this to the despite that there hathbeen--as then--no properness of anger to have for an afterself-reproach.And surely, I to have done this thing only of a stern intent andsteadfastness, that I steady Mine Own Maid unto wisdom; but yet to havebeen helpt by a little anger, because of the thing that she had done.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT]Yet, alway, my love did be so strong, that mine anger never to haveaught of bitterness, as you shall have seen, and to understand.And we went back then for the foot-gear of the Maid; and she to be veryhusht in mine arms; but yet, as I perceived, not to be quiet, of anhumble little heart, but only of the chance that her nature did bestirred that way for the while.And truly, when we were gone back, the foot-gear did be there to theside of the pool, and the Maid gat shod very speedy, and would have noaid; and afterward did up her hair very tight upon her head, to have itutter from my sight; and this to be for a perverseness; for she knewthat I did love to see it pretty upon her shoulders, or if that she mustdo it, that she do it up very loose and nice; and truly you to know howI mean; only that I have no skill of such matters; but yet a good tasteto admirings, if that the thing be aright.And I to say nothing, as I looked at her; and she presently to make aquick glance unto me, to see why I did say naught. And I shook my head,
[METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION][SURPRISE]smiling at her waywardness; but she to look away from me, and to seem tobe set to fresh naughtiness.Now we went forward then upon our journey; and alway the Maid to walkonward from me; but yet to have no other impudence, neither to sing.And I to go kindly with her; but yet to think that she did lack somewhatto know that I did be truly her Master; and I to wonder a little whethershe did know proper that my gentleness with her did be not of weakness,but born of understanding and love, and the more proof that I did be fitto possess and to guide her.And truly this was the thought of a young man, yet lacking not of Reasonin the bottom part, though mayhap to be something clumsy-seeming untothe mind of a maid; and to be very human to my years; and you to havebeen likewise, if that you have tried all-ways with a dear One, and sheto be yet over-wilful, so that you to wonder whether she did truly knowhow you did understand.
[ACTION][TRANSITION][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][CHARACTER][WITCH]And surely a maid doth know much that doth be in the heart of a man, ifthat she be true woman in her own secret heart. And oft she doth knowmore of her man than her man doth wot of himself, and to go her owndiverse ways that she search out and bring forth and waken all that isthe inward being of the man that she doth love.Yet, when that she have stirred you in the deeps that you scarce toknow, she to be all fearful, and in the same moment to have no fear; andto be in rebellion, and in the same moment to be most strange humble.And all to be born of love, and nature in action upon nature.
[TRANSITION][CONFLICT][SETTING][WITCH]And more than this how shall I have learning of the heart to tell you;for, in verity, there doth be much in these few lines, if that you knowto read. And surely you to know, or to learn; but if neither, then haveyou gone short of joy and the true inwardness of life.Now this way I did be, as I have told; and the Maid to be quietlynaughty in perverseness, as also I have set out; yet to have a strictmind to her duties, and to go now wondrous sedate upon the journey; yetalway apart. And likewise, when that the sixth hour did come, and we toour halt, as ever, she to be very speedy and nice that the water and thetablets be ready for me; but yet to have no word; neither to eat by me;but again a little apart, and not to share the water, but to make abrewing to herself, when that I had done.
And likewise, the Maid held not up her tablets to be kist, as alway; buteat them, quiet and meditative, and with little nibblings, as that shedid ponder upon other matters, or mayhap to be not hungry.And these things I saw, as we eat and drank in a silence; and I to lookat the Maid, somewise sad in the heart, and something stirred; and I tosay to myself wisely, yet as a young man, that she did not yet be taughtsufficient that I was her master. And this you to perceive.And she never to seem to look at me; but to be quiet and demure, and tohave her eyelids something down upon her eyes.
Now, presently, as I thought upon the matter, I saw that I do well thatI take no heed of Mine Own; but to let her to come to a natural end ofthis naughtiness, that did be, in the same time, both pretty and alittle foolish; so that in half I condemned it and in half I wasstirred; and alway I loved the Maid very dear, and had a goodunderstanding; and there to be also an interest in my heart at this newside that she did be showing. And also, she to stir me odd whiles untomasterfulness; and so you to know pretty well how it did be with me inthe matter.Now, surely, I found this plan, that I attend not to the Maid, to havesomething of success; for I knew presently that she did look upward atme, slyly, from under her pretty eyelashes; and after, to be demure in amoment; and this to go forward for a while; yet I to show no heed.And in a while, I saw that she gave attention to her garments, in theway of nattiness; and afterward, she took down her hair, and made it upthen very loose and pretty upon her head; so that she did be verylovely, and to tempt mine eyes that they look alway at her. But, indeed,
[CONFLICT][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION][TRANSITION][PROBLEM][CHARACTERIZATION][CONTEXT][EXPOSITION][METAPHOR][FLASHBACK]I did make as that I had no heed that the Maid did shape her hairdifferent upon her head.And she very soon then to speak, and to have the lesser gear together,and to make that she attract me. But truly, I was very nice with her;yet to keep her now a little off from me in the spirit; and so to teachher that-wise, that she was somewhat of a dear naughty maid; but also,as I do think, I was this way, because that in part I would tease her,in great love of her prettiness and her makings up to me; and so maybeeven that I make her to be the more defying of me. And this to be asthat I also lacked somewhat of reason; for I did strangely that I thinkthat she need to be whipt, and in the same time that I go to make herthe more deserving of the same.
[PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION][CONTEXT][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][WITCH]Yet, this to be the truth, as I know it; and surely to be the naturalwaywardness of love. But yet, there did be also in the backward part ofmy wisdom, an intent that I be wise and careful with Mine Own; and Isurely to have no full realisings that I did be like to set her furtherunto perverseness than yet she did be.Now, after that I had shown well that I lacked to heed the Maid, I foundthat I did be looking oft at her; and she to be so dear and pretty, andto be all husht, that truly I could not bear that I be longer silent toher advancements.And I ceased then from pretending, and would have had her into minearms; but she to be now in sweet dignity, and to keep me off with verysober graces. And because of this, I to feel someway that I did be
someway in blame; and surely, now that I consider it, I can see that Iwas something acted upon, even as had been the Maid; and so we two tobe; and a most human pair, as you to say; and somewhat both a-lack; butindeed, we did be very wholesome, and in utter love each of the other;and mayhap both then to perceive something of the sweet foolishnesswithin us that did be as yeast a-work in us; for I thought that Naanidid smile a little to herself. But, surely, this clear-seeing, to be butfor an odd time; and afterward we each again to earnestness in our waywith the other; but alway, even when we did make to show indifference,we to be something troubled inwardly with sweet flashings of ourbewildered natures.Now, though I have shown you that I to know that I did be not utter freeof this most strange and natural foolishness; yet you to perceive that Itell this only that I have utter truth of all things that did happen;for, in verity, because that I was something subtly touched this way atwhiles, yet was this no full excusing of the Maid; though, in the samemoment, you to perceive, that there did be only the half of me to thinkthat she did need to be excused; for, in truth, mine understanding wentalway, in the main, with the workings of her nature; and had a naturalsympathy with her dear whimsies; but also, as you to know, I to bestirred constant in my manhood by her naughty defyings; and to betroubled in my Natural Sense, when that her whimsies made her to actthat she be likely to come unto aught of harm.And surely now you to see all the way of my heart, and to haveunderstanding in things that do follow. And alway you shall mind that I
did love her utter, and to crave alway that I be a shield unto her;though truly, there doth be, mayhap, somewhat in me that doth act tomake me a little stern seeming in my love; but yet not oft so; as you doknow, that have gone with me in all my tellings.Now, we went then upon our journey; and the Maid to be somewhat beforeme, and offward to the side, upon my right; and to have no speech withme, but to make a good pace, and to be very dear and graceful as shewent.And now we did pass this thing of strangeness, and now that; and these Idid point out to her, and made some telling concerning the same, havingthe memory of mine outward way, and how that I did see these thingsthen, when that I was all in suffering of so lonesome a doubt.And she to hark alway very intent, and to move her head nice andintelligent, to show that she heard me; and once I saw that she looktsudden at me with a dear light in her eyes; but this to be done in amoment, and she to be again silent-seeming and in her new perversity ofdignity.
And surely she did seem so utter sweet in this new way of naughtiness;but yet I did think, odd whiles, that I should like to shake her untodear humbleness and her usual way.And in the twelfth hour, we made halt again, and had our food and ourdrink; and the Maid to serve me very clever and quiet, as that I did beher Lord, and she an husht slave. And I saw that she made a constant andnaughty mock upon me; and truly, as I did half think, she to need thatshe be in care that I not treat her sternly, as shall a slave-master,and to give her that which she did ask for so mute and impudent. Butalway she did stir me mightily to have her to mine arms, and to love hervery dear.
And presently, we did be again to our way; and to be yet silent; so thatI scarce knew whether to have patience with Mine Own, or whether that Itake her and speak seriously with her to cease this play, which didbegin a little to dispirit me somewhat strangely.And in the end I went over to her, as we did walk, and I put mine armabout her, and she to yield to me without word, and to hark very quietto my speech of reasoning and gentle sayings, and to hide whether shedid be stirred inwardly, or not; though, indeed, my spirit to know thather spirit did never be afar off from mine in all deep matters; but onlythis thing to be to the top, and to set somewhat between us that did beboth a sweetness and a trouble.And alway, as I talked with the Maid, I saw that she did make naughtilyto act as that I did be a slave-master, and she but a chattel to me; forshe to be husht before me, and neither to yield her slender body willingto mine arm, nor to resist me; but only to be still, as that she had nosaying in this matter; and as that I was like to beat her at mypleasure, or to withhold my hand, all as might chance to be my desire.And this I perceived was the shaping of her actions, so that all herdumbness and her quiet obedience did be but a way to say this thing tome; and all to have come from her love of me and that she did be shakenin her nature by my manhood, and so to be but a new form of hernaughtiness, that did have this change when that I whipt her.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT]And all this, you to perceive, that have gone with me.And I saw that she would not cease from this perverseness, but made adumb and naughty and hidden mock upon me, very dainty and constant, andscarce to be truly perceived, save by the inward sense. And truly, Igrew something angered afresh, and to feel that she did need that she beshaken so stern that she come unto the reality that I did be her man andnatural master; yet alway in love.And surely I loosed her then, and went off a pace to her side; and weagain to go forward thiswise; yet she soon to have a greater distancebetween us, which she made very quiet and natural; but, indeed, I sawwhat she did.
[EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][CHARACTER]Now, about the fourteenth hour of that journeying, I saw before us, inthe far distance, the rock upon which did be the olden flying ship, thatyou shall remember. And presently, as we came more nigh, I lookt oft toMine Own; and I saw that she did be staring that way, and to be inwonder; but yet to say naught to me.And soon, as we came very close, I did want that I tell her about theship, and of mine adventuring there, and of the wonder of that oldenship, set there through Eternity.But in the first, I hesitated, as you shall think, because of her way;but truly, my heart knew that her heart did be proper unto me; and,moreover, I should be small in my nature, if that I let any pettinessput a silence upon me; though, in verity, if that the Maid had not beeninwardly loving to me, I had been that I had told her no word; and thisto be very natural, whether it be of smallness or not.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE]And when that we were come beside the great uprising rock, I made halt,and the Maid to halt with me; and I showed her how that the thing uponthe rock did be an olden flying ship from the Mighty Pyramid. And in thefirst, she askt no questions; but did be quiet and but to show withlittle noddings that she did be greatly interest.And I to show to her how that this olden ship did be there mayhap anhundred thousand years; and to have been there, as it did seem to us(that were of that age) since the beginnings of the world; though, inverity, our two spirits did know that the beginnings of That Age, did betruly the ending of This, as you also to know.And much I told Mine Own, and afterward concerning the two Humpt Menthat did come after me; and she alway to be silent, until that I spokeof the fight; but then to come round upon me very swift, and with a dearlight in her eyes; and had askt, before she did wot, whether they didhurt me.
And surely, this to have been the first thing of her olden sweetnaturalness that she did say for a great while, and I to be so indelight, that I had her into mine arms, and kist her very loving, allin a moment, and she to submit with a nice gladness, and to nestle untome, and all unwitting that she did be gone from her waywardness.Yet, in verity, she did be a naughty Maid; for she minded in an instantthat she did forget her pose unto me; and lo, her lips did be no more tosearch unto mine, but to be as that they did be kist only of my will,and she to have no more live nestling unto me, but only to be quiet inmine arms. And I lookt into her face, and her lids to be down somewhatover her pretty eyes, and she did look very husht and demure; so thattruly, I knew not whether to shake her or again to kiss her.But in the end I loost her, and made then that we go forward; yet,indeed, she did rather stay awhile, to hark further concerning the oldenship and of mine adventurings; but she did then to mind that she obey asa slave shall obey; and truly, I did punish her, in that I told her nomore; but went forward at a good pace, and had some natural wonder howthat I deal with such a Maid, if that I spare to shake her.And surely, I thought then again that I leave her be, and so to have herpresently again to her old and natural way.
Now, in a while, I lifted the Maid into mine arms, that I carry her, asever, through the last part of each journey, and so to have her neverover-tired for the morrow. And she for a moment to resist; but instantlyto give unto me, and to lie quiet in mine arms, as that she had nosaying in aught that did be done, but must alway obey. And, indeed, youto see how dearly perverse she did be.And I went on then through four hours from that time, and lookt oft uponevery side, and walkt quietly; for truly we were come now into a part ofthe Country where I did feel that there might be near some of the HumptMen.
But I saw nowhere anything to put me in dread.And alway as we journeyed, there did seem a great stillness in all theCountry near about; and afar off the low mutter of the Great Fire-Hills,in this place and that, and a drowse as of life and warmth about us, andeverywhere the air very rich and plentiful.And presently, when that we did be come down from that high place wheredid be set the rock and the olden ship, we came in among the trees thatcame very nigh to the shore for a great way; and oft as we did go, therewere clumpings of small fire-hills that did cast fire and noise; and oftthe roaring of monstrous springs a-boil; and then again the smell of thewoods about us, and oft still in odd places the low near sound of alittle fire-hill, that did burn, lonesome, in some clear space of thewoods, in this place and that; and afterward we to be gone onward againinto the dull low mutter that did be in all the air of that Country, andthat did but make a seeming of silence, because that it did be so farand constant.Now, about the eighteenth hour I to note that the noise of the GreatFire-Hills grew more loud; and I saw presently over the trees, afarupward in the great night and gloom that did lie above, those two mightyFire-Hills that I did feel to make the earth tremble, in that part, uponmine outward way. And surely I have told something of this before; and
[SURPRISE]you to remember, if that you but think a little moment.Now, it may appear strange that I speak thiswise of seeing the two Hillsof fire; as that I had perceived them sudden. But, indeed, I had beenlong abled to see them both, yet to have had no attention to them,because that they did be a great way off, and because they did be buttwo Hills of fire, in a Country that did be plentiful with such.And, truly, I not to have said aught about them, only that our path didtake us now by their feet, and I to see them, as it were, newly; and tohave nice ease of heart to perceive how that they did be a wonder untothe spirit and the brain for all time.
[SURPRISE][METAPHOR][CHARACTERIZATION][PLOT][PERSPECTIVE][FLASHBACK][CONFLICT][SUSPENSE]For it did be as that the earth had a constant shaking within miles ofthem, and that a monstrous force of nature did be in that place. But yetthere to be no desolation around, as you should think; but in all partsa wondrous growing of trees and great plants in abundance.And the trees to grow upward upon the shoulders of the mountain; andthere to be no falling of hot rocks and ash, as you to think; but allvery sweet and wholesome, as that the mighty valley made a chimney tothe mountain, and mayhap to others, so that their waste, if that theyhad such, did go free. But, indeed, you shall take no heed of thisexplaining, save as an odd thinking that hath come to me, and to bewithout foundation. And there to be no surety of the reason to this;
only that there did be no falling of ash in that part, as I do know. Yetin other parts of that Country the Fire-Hills did make new mountains ofthe matter that did come from them; but this not to be alway so; andthere to seem to my knowledge no cause to order why this did not beconstant; save that my guessings to be right, or naught to be blown fromsome. But, indeed, I to be sure only of that which did be plain to mineeyes. And mayhap there to be no mystery in the thing; but a score ofnatural explainings, if that I did know, or had patience to think longenough upon such.
[ACTION][PLOT]Now when that the eighteenth hour did be proper come, we to be anigh tothe great Hills, and there to seem nowise any danger of falling fire, sothat I sought about for a place for our slumber.And I found a cave in the side of a big rock; and the cave was dry andcomfortable, and had the mouth about a score feet above the earth. Andwhen that I had climbed and lookt well into the cave, I gave the Maid anhelp, and had her safe into that place; and she then to prepare thetablets and the water, the while that I brought up a boulder from below,to set very light balanced in the mouth of the cave. And this I meantfor a signal to fall, if that any creature should climb upward into thecave, while that we did sleep. And surely, you to know this plan; for I
[EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE]did it before, as you to have learned.And the Maid sat near to me, and eat her tablets very quiet and with ademure naughtiness; but yet to be also in wonder, and to gaze outward atthe Great Fire-Hills, and to be in awe, as I did know.And I put my half-anger and my play from me, and told her of mineoutward journeying, and how I did go by these same mighty Fire-Hills,that did seem as mighty torches to light me in my search, and to haveheld a new strangeness and wonder over my path.And she still to be silent, but yet to look at me twice or thrice with avery dear and loving way; though she did hide her eyes in a moment, whenthat she saw that I perceived her.
And soon the Maid spread the cloak for our sleep; and while that she didthis, I lookt well about for any creature that might be anigh; and I hadan especial thought unto the Humpt Men; but, indeed, there was naughtliving, unto my sight, and nowhere did I see anything to put me in fearfor our lives.And truly I had a great viewing from that place; for we did be in anupward rock that stood in a high part, and the cave to be twenty goodfeet aloft, as I have told; so that all made to set us in a lofty place.And the cave to look toward the two Mountains that did rise upward nomore than twelve good miles off from us, as I do think; and the Countrybetween to be somewise as a mighty park; for it was spread much aboutthe feet of the Great Fire-Hills, and did be bare in this place andthat, as that rock did make the earth naked there, or the falling ofsome later fire to have wrought thus. And between the bare parts, therewent strange and romantic woods, seen mistily, and in parts the gleamingof waters, as that hot lakes did be half shown among the broken forests.
[PROBLEM]And presently the Land did go upward with a monstrous sweep, and wasthen in great terraces in the height, and trees to grow very plentifulupon the mountains, in sundry parts; and so those two Mighty Hills to goupward to meet the everlasting night; and presently to show strangeuplands that did be seen very wondrous and queer in the light that didglow from the vast glowing of the fire that did be a crown upon thehills, that did seem in verity to be that they burned halfway betweenthat known world, and the lost olden world, that was mayhap two hundredgreat miles above in the everlasting night and eternity of darkness.And I lookt upward for awhile, and was much held by the mighty uplandsthat did be on high; yet did lie utter far below the burning crests ofthe Mountains, and showed vague and sombre and dreadful seeming, becausethat they did be so lost upward, and to have the mystery of the redshining and of the shadows upon them, and to seem to slope far under thegreat fires, but yet to be a place where no life should ever come,because that they did be so monstrous a way upward beyond the greatshoulders of the Hills, the which did be themselves a huge way up. Andtruly, I should give you somewhat of the affecting of those grim andunknown Uplands, if that I said they did seem to my fancy to be a placewhere a sorrowful thing might wander lost forever. But why I to thinkthis thing, how shall I say; and do tell it to you, only because that itdoth seem to hold in the thought the grimness and utter desolation ofthose high and lonesome lands.
And by this, I was done looking, and turned me about, and so did findthat Mine Own did stand silent, and waited that I come to my slumber.And surely, I lookt at her; but she did have her lids somethingdownward, when that she saw me turn; and so in the end, I said naught,but went to my sleep, and had the Diskos very handy, as ever, beside me.And I then to know that Mine Own did lie down beside me, to my back, asalway, and this to gladden me, as you shall think; for I perceivedafresh how thin did be the crust of her naughtiness; and I to be alwaystirred and touched in the heart by her loving naturalness, that didneed alway that she be near to me, save when she did play thisnaughtiness upon me along the way.And I saw that she had no mind to be perverse whilst that I did slumber;but must now be nigh unto me, and quietly loving; though nowise trulyceased from her naughty acting that I did be as an hard slave master,because that I had whipt her; yet she to have somewhat a truce with me,as my heart did know. But, indeed, she not to kiss me good-night upon
the mouth, in her dear usual and sober fashion.And surely I did lie awhile, and pondered upon the Maid and upon all herways; and I perceived that she kist me not, only because that she didnot be able to break utter from her perverseness, that did come from thestirring of her nature. And truly, I did love her, and was half mindedthat I turn about to her, and take her a moment into mine arms; but yetto abide from this, because that I was set that I wait awhile, and tobring her to me thiswise, mayhaps.And presently, I knew that the Maid kist mine armour, very quiet andshy, because that she must kiss me; yet to be intent that I have noknowledge of this pretty act. But, indeed, I did know in all my being,
and did be newly tender unto her; yet to say naught, and to wait.And thus I knew presently that her breathing did go easy, so that Iperceived that she was all content and gone over unto slumber, somewiseas a little child that doth be weary, and doth sleep without care, andwith happy assurance.And, in verity, did a man ever to have so sweet and gentle a maid, thatdid be in the same time so troublous and perverse.And I to lie yet awhile, and to note the constant tremble and shake ofthe rock that did be under us; and this to be alway thus as I did lie,and to be the more plain, because that I did be quiet in thought. And
[PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR][SURPRISE][CONTEXT][CHARACTERIZATION]this, as I conceived, did come from the earth-shaking that was made bythe inward fire of the world, the which did make a vague trouble in allthat part of the Land.And then in a little, I was gone over into sleep, and waked not forseven good hours; and then to hear the fizzing of the water, very briskand cheerful, and so to have mine eyes open in a moment, and to know bymy time-keeper or dial, that was somewhat like to a watch of this age,that I had slumbered through seven good hours. But this to be learnedafter that I had lookt to see whether Mine Own did be well, and whetherthat the boulder did balance in the mouth-part of the cave.And surely, there did be nothing in harm; for the boulder was there, asI did put it; and the Maid a little off from me, and did make ready thewater and the tablets, that we eat before our journeying.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][SURPRISE]And I rose then, and in the same moment I did know that my mouth hadbeen kist whilst that I slept; and the knowing to come to me vague, asthat I had been kist in my dreams.And I lookt over toward the Maid; but she to have her lids somethingdown upon her eyes, and to seem very demure; so that I saw hernaughtiness was come again upon her. Yet, truly, I could not bear that Inot to have her into mine arms; for, indeed, her perverseness did seemas that she did the more tempt me unto her. And thus I came to her in amoment; but she neither to resist me, nor to give herself unto me; butonly to be still in mine arms, and to do no more than submit very quiet.And because of this, I loost her unkist, and was silent, and a little tobe angered, even whilst that my heart perceived the way of the workingof her heart. Yet truly I ached now that she come back to her dear
natural fashion.And I eat my tablets and drank some of the water; and the Maid to dolikewise.And afterward, I lookt well from the mouth of the cave; but did nowheresee aught to put me in trouble for our safety, though, truly, aspresently I saw, there went an herd of strange creatures afar off in theNorthwestward part, which did be that way of the Country, beyond thefeet of the mountains, toward the In-Land.Now, when that I was something assured of the safeness of the way, I gatthe Diskos to my hip, and the Maid to have the scrip and the pouch readyto my back, and her bundle to her hand; and so all to be ready.
[CONFLICT][TRANSITION][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][SURPRISE][METAPHOR]And I went downward from the cave, when that I was girt, and gave aid toMine Own; and so to be soon upon the journey.And surely, as we went onward, and I to look about me withdifferent-seeing eyes from my looking on mine outward way, I to see howwondrous this part of the Land did be; and how that it did be truly likea great and wondrous park, that did be made of the skill and labour ofgodlike things; and truly this to show my feeling, as I lookt all-ways.And all that part did be bred of the inward forces of the world, and didbe burned clear in this place, and upheaved in that, and made to an hotlake in another part; and odd whiles there to go a great steam fountain,that did whistle a lonely song forever. And anon there to be a smallwood, and again a wood; and oft the quietness of great and strangetrees, that did stand alone. And here, and in that part, a little
fire-hill, that did be surely no greater than an house, and we to passseven of these in but three hours. And two to glow very steadfast, andto make no vigour of burning; but the five others did burn very strong,and sent out a smoke and ash, and made a small desolation all aboutthem; and of these five, there did be one that cast stones oft andagain, so that they went upward with a strange loud noise, and fell inthis place and that, all about, so that we came downward more nigh tothe shore, that we be a good way off.And here, as I do mind, there was a strangeness, in that there did bemany trees that had stones set in the branches; and this to be plainlythe work of the little fire-hill; and I to think it but something newcome, else surely there had been no trees within all that space that itdid throw; but yet, mayhap, I am wrong in this; for all things did seemthat they grew very easy in that Country; and indeed this to be forsurprise to me, only that I saw it with mine own eyes, as we do say.And alway as we did go, there were signs of inward life and forces; sothat we but to stand quiet to feel that the earth did tremble gently inmany parts.
And presently there sounded for a great while a low and dull boomingsound; and this we found to be from a place amid certain great rockstoward the mountains; for there came thence a mighty up-spouting ofboiling water, that went so high as an hundred feet, and oft to bethrice so high, and belched a great steam; and there went up in the jetof the water, a great rock, that was so big as an house, and did danceand play in the might of the water, as that it had been no more than athing very light and easy. And when that the water fell, as it did oft,the rock to go downward with the dull booming that we did hear.And I minded how that I had heard the booming upon mine outward way; buthad been then something more to the shore, so that it had been lessplain to mine ears, as you shall suppose; neither had it been then to mysight, as now it did be to us because that we were come mayhap the halfof a mile more toward the In-Land of the Country.And truly, we lookt awhile at this huge great fountain and up-boiling,and came nearer unto it; but yet to be a large space off, because ofthe way that it did throw out a spattering of small stones odd whiles.
And surely the thing did cough and roar in the deep earth, and anon togruntle gently and to sob and gurgle; and lo! to come forth in a momentwith a bellow, very hollow and strange, and the great rock to gospinning upward, and all a-shine in the light from the volcanoes, andwas so round as a monstrous ball, and polished by the fret of thewaters, so that I saw it had surely danced in the great jet through aweary time.And anon the jet to cease and to go downward with a great soughing andthundering of waters, and the dancing rock to fall downward from thatheight which did show very huge, now that we did be come so near. Andthe rock surely to fall backward into some deep pit, whence came thewaters, and as it fell, there was again the dull booming. But why the
[DANGER][SURPRISE]rock brake not, I could not perceive, save that it did alway fall into aboiling up of waters, and had no hurt from the rock of the place whenceit was come.And the Maid and I both to have stood a while, that we stare at thisthing; for it did be more strange than I have made you to know; but nowI did make to our journey again, and did think the Maid followed; butlo! in a moment, when that I lookt, she was to my back, and went towardthe great boiling fountain. Then I stopt very swift, and called to her;but she did take no heed of me, and went onward very naughty, unto thedanger of the great boil of the Jet, and the constant flying out of thestones, that you do know.
[CONFLICT]Now, even as I stood and lookt, the Maid drew nigh to the place wherethe water did thunder; and the Jet in that moment to bellow, so that Iknew it came upward again. And I ran then after the Maid, and she to seeme, and began likewise to run from me toward the monstrous fountain; andsurely I did think that I had done well if that I had whipt or beat herproper before this time; for truly it did be as that her naughtiness hadgone nigh unto somewhat that did be near to a wayward madness, so thatas I did perceive all her nature did surely work in her toward some deedthat should be for regret; and this to come, because that she did besomething pusht from her dear balance by her loving, and by the actingof my manhood upon her, so that her nature both to be in rebellionagainst me and to need me, and all in the same time. And this-way, sheto be in an inward turmoil, and to be ready foolishly that she put indanger her beloved life, if only thereby she to make me somethingadrift, and in the same moment to have some ease of her perverseness.And, in verity, you to know all this, because that I have shown theworking of her heart to you before this time.
[ACTION][DANGER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][WEAPON]Now, I caught the Maid among the great rocks, which did stand all about;and before her there did be a monstrous pit whence came the upburstingof the water; and the water to go upward before our faces in a mightycolumn, so that it did be as that a sea shot up on end, into a pillar ofliving water, and went upward forever, as it did seem in that moment.And how we should be saved, I knew not, for the water did be as that itoverhung us, and should come down upon us and smother us in one moment,forever. And the roar was in our ears and shook all the air of thatplace with sound, as of an harsh and dreadful thunder; and there was ascalding of beaten water, as fine as an haze, all about us.And I had the Maid in one instant into mine arms, and I ran very swift,with a fierce running, that I have her away speedy, and so made forlorntrial that I save her life. And lo! as I went from under that huge and
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][DANGER][HORROR]dreadful overhang of the great waters, there came downward from theheight a great stone that had been cast by the Jet, and it burst uponthe rock to my back, and certain of the flinders did strike and ringupon mine armour, and made me to stagger as I ran. But I held the Maidcrowded safe against my breast, and she did not be hurt; and truly I wasyet able to run, and did save Mine Own, and brought her out from underthat grim Spouting.And I put the Maid down then to her feet; and she not to know how nearthat she had given us to death, neither of the way that the fragmentsdid strike me; for she laughed very naughty and gleeful. But truly Ilaughed not; for my heart had been nigh husht with terror for her; sothat I did be yet sick in my spirit, and mayhap also something shaken bythe blows that I gat from the broken stone.
And, in verity, I to have meant that I flog her, very sharp, if thatthere be no other way that I might bring her to reason; for, in surety,as you to see, she to be acting so wild as a child, and so unreasoningas only a Maid-in-love; and I to know that she did have to be broughtback from this way of spirit, even though I have to hurt her prettybody, that I bring her again to her dear natural wiseness.Yet, indeed, I could not whip her then, because that she did laugh sojoyous, though with a naughty heart, and did look so wondrous dainty, sothat even her defyings did but seem that which my heart desired. Andyou, mayhap, to have been something likewise in the love-days. Yet Ipled and reasoned with her to be a wise maid; but, indeed, she only tomake a gleeful mock of all that I did say.
Now I went forward again, for I was not harmed by the stone, only that Idid be shaked, as you shall think. And the Maid to go offward from me,and to sing, and did oft dance naughtily as she went. But truly, I didbe silent with her, for I was but human, and did lack that she come tomine arms, and love me, because that I had pluckt her safe from thatplace. And, indeed, this to be but a natural desiring; and you to haveunderstanding with me, and to know that you also to have this lack andneed, if that you to have done aught for love of your maid, and she todeny you a word of loving tenderness.
[CONFLICT][EMOTION][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][PROBLEM][METAPHOR]Yet, in verity, I to be even then able to perceive with mine inwardsenses, how that the Maid did have a wondrous up-pouring of love for me,but yet did be so perverse, and the more so, mayhap, because that herlove did so urge her unto loving admittings that I did be her Man. Andshe, maybe, to have meant that she be the more humble presently, but yetto go naughtily awhile more, and not, indeed, to have had the powerwithin her at that time, to have come unto me, and cast off herwaywardness, and askt that she be in mine arms, as all my heart diddesire.And so, as I have told, I went silently, and mayhap with a littledullness, that did be part of anger and part of hurt and part of thatsame strange love-foolishness from which the Maid did suffer. And truly,this doth be very contrary-seeming, only that you have seen my heart;and all indeed the more human, that it doth be so contrariwise to thebrain-reason; and all to be desired, else did a man be no better than anant or a weariful machine.
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION][MONSTER]And this to be truth and wholesomeness as you shall perceive, if thatyou look deep enough, and do modify Reason with heart-understanding;for, in verity, how shall that which we call Reason, bring any to thefull and the great knowledge. And this doth be a power of holy things,and doth be a child that is born of Love and Reason, and in the one tohold the two, and to know all things is the gift of this power; so thatno man may walk truly that hath only the first, neither any man do utterwise that hath only the second.And surely, I to cease from these thoughts, and to my tellings; and youto your harkings and dear sympathy.Now, when the sixth hour did be come, we made a halt and eat and drank,and afterward went onward again, and so came presently clear of the twomonstrous fire-hills; and their great noise to be presently to our rear,and likewise that quiet country that did be round their feet, and didseem so utter husht and strange and doubly so, because of the upwardnoise of the mountains, and because of the slow and subtle earth-shakingthat did be so constant, and because of all those things that I havetold.
Now, when we had made halt, the Maid had done her hair very uncomelyupon her head, and had lookt slyly to see whether I did note; but truly,I took no heed; so that in the end she had it again in a pretty fashion,and did sing naughtily and with an heart of mischief, as she did shapeit loose and wondrous nice about her head.And I still to have no word for her; neither to show that I did watchher with love and somewise a quaint pleasure of her perverseness, evenwhilst that I did strive by silence and an aloofness that I bring her tomy side, as she did be in the first days; for truly I did ache that shebe near unto me, and to cease from her waywardness that did put adistance of spirit between us, as you to perceive.And so we did go forward again, as I have told, and the Maid did strivethat she make me to give attention to her naughtiness, for she did walkalway offward from me, and did sing aloud, and truly they did be songsstrange unto me, but yet to be of love, and much as the songs of thisAge; for, truly, there doth be but one song upon all the earth, and shebut to sing it in diverse ways.And she did oft to make little glancing toward me, and did pout verypretty; and in a moment come something toward me, as that she did behumble, and would be forgiven; but all to be in a naughty mockery; sothat, in verity, I lookt not at her, save odd whiles; but did go forwardalway, and made as that I had no heed of her doings.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][PROBLEM][DANGER][PERSPECTIVE]And surely this did presently to stir her to a new defying and to apretty anger; for she did sing other songs of impudence, that she didfit very clever about me; and this way to have a constant impertinence.And so we did go, and I never to speak with the Maid, but to wonder whenthat she cease, or how long it should be ere that I did run swift to herand have her into mine arms, that I shake her and kiss her, all as myheart did desire.And when that the twelfth hour did be come, we made halt again and eatand drank; and the Maid to serve me very intent, and hand me the water,the while that she went down upon her knee, as a slave; but when I wouldhave laughed gently at her mockings, and taken her into mine arms, shewent from me very sudden and cold, and was afterward silent and did sitapart from me.Now I also did be silent, and in the first because that I was a littlepained, and also because that I did be new touched with thelove-foolishness that did trouble Mine Own.
[DANGER][CONFLICT][EMOTION][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][ACTION][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION]But afterward, I ceased from these feelings, and did be intent toanother matter; for it did seem to my spirit that there was some dangeranigh to us; and I had a thought of the Humpt Men, and lookt well about,and did beckon the Maid to come nigh, because that the trees did beplentiful thereabout, to hide any creature.But Mine Own came not over to me, so that I loosed the Diskos from minehip, and went that I be nigh to her. And she made that she saw me not;but did set the gear together, and had it presently a-ready for thejourney, the while that I did look all-ways among the trees; but indeedI saw naught.And when that I had the gear upon me, and the Maid her bundle, we wentforward again; and I to be very wary, and bid the Maid keep close to myside; but indeed, she would not obey, and went offward among the trees,so that I was all an-haunted with dread for her, and ran and caught her,and talkt wisely with her; but indeed she did not hark to me; but didrun off in the moment that I loost her.
[ACTION]And I caught her again, and I took one of the straps from around theScrip and the Pouch, and set it about her pretty waist, and the end Iheld in my hand, and so had her to obey me in this thing which did beneedful to her safety.And the Maid to go with me very husht for two great hours, and I alwayto look well about. And in the end of that time, the Maid did begin tosing impudently, and I did ask her that she be a quiet maid, lest thatshe bring danger upon us; but she to be the more impudent.And lo! as I did strive that I look all-ways, lest any harm did come
[DANGER][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][WEAPON][EMOTION][CONFLICT][ACTION]upon us, and in the same moment to reason Mine Own from her prettyfolly, she did grow very husht, so that I lookt round upon her in aninstant. And truly, she had cut the strap with her belt-knife, and didrun away very swift among the trees. And surely my heart did slow alittle in my breast, because that there did seem something a-move in thedark of the shadows, where the trees did grow thick, and the Maid didrun that way in her foolishness and waywardness.And I ran hard after the Maid, and did call her, not over-loud, lest Ibring somewhat upon her; but she to have no heed, and to run very lightand swift, so that I caught her not for the half of a minute, as itmight be; for she was gone ahead, and I did be a little cumbered withmine armour.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE]And lo! when I caught her, I shook her, and pointed inward among thetrees, for it did seem even then to me that something moved there; butshe to struggle in my hand a moment, and afterward to be still, and toask with an insolence and a defiance whether that I did mean to flog mychattel, the which she did call herself in her naughtiness.And, in verity, ere I did know, she had twist from me, and did run witha true wickedness straight toward that place where somewhat had seemedto be a-move. And I ran then with all my strength, and with a fearfuland an anxious heart. And because I put all my strength to the matter, I
[ACTION][CONFLICT][DANGER][EMOTION]caught the Maid in a moment, ere she did be gone any way; and she againto fight to be gone from me. But I took her into mine arms, very strong,and I ran outward from that place where the trees made a darkness.And surely, when I was come again to where the trees did be more spare,I saw that I was come nigh to that river which I crost on the raft, asyou shall mind; and truly I did be glad, and to feel safe in a moment.Yet I was firm now to my purpose; for I set the Maid to the earth uponher feet, and kept my hold very sure upon her; for I did mean that Iwhip her, before that her love-foolishness bring her needless untodeath.
And I took the belt from her pretty waist, for it did be but a lightstrap, and I whipt her very sharp over her shoulders with the belt. And,truly, she did make to nestle unto me in a moment, as that other timewhen that I whipt her; but I stayed her from this, and I set the beltthrice more across her shoulders, very sharp, so that she to learnwisdom at once, and I to be free for ever of this need to pain her,which did hurt me very strange.And the Maid to stand very quiet, now that I did keep her from comingunto me; and her head did be something bent, so that I knew not whetherI did mayhap have flogged her over-hard; for I did be something lackingin knowledge whether that a maid be very easy hurt.And I stooped and lookt into her face; and lo! she did be smiling
[DANGER][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][EMOTION]naughtily, and kist me in a moment very saucy upon the mouth, ere I didbe aware; and afterward, she laughed and made try to make a bitter mockupon me, and askt when that I should be pleased to cease from whippingmy chattel; for that then she should run away immediately into the wood,and to trust the Humpt Men that they protect her from me.And surely, I lookt at her very grave; for I perceived that she did nottruly jest, but made to anger me, and did be half in a strange angerherself, and something adrift; for she had not been whipt enough, butonly to stir her rebellion utterly. And I saw that if she be not setright then, ere she leave my hand, she to be like to have some newfoolishness that should take her unto her death, even as she had comeovernear already, as you to know. And this to be because that her naturedid be stirred so that her natural wiseness was all overset, and she tobe that she do aught of unwisdom that should come to her, because of herpretty love-foolishness, which did now be made the more strong, byreason of the half-rising of her anger.
[PERSPECTIVE][WEAPON]And this way, as I have known, I perceived that, for her dear sake, Ishould not let my lovingness weaken me in that moment. And, in verity, Ishifted my hand and loosed the fastenings of her garment, so that herpretty shoulders did be bared. And her face to change sudden, and shelookt up at me an instant, with a little gasp; so that I knew she did beall unbroken, as was mine intent; but she did not yet have learneddeeply in her heart, all that I was minded that she to learn; for evenin that moment, she made a sound that showed she did try to mock me; buttruly, she did not know in that instant whether to mock or to weep;though she did try to suppose that she had yet an heart for mockery.And I set the belt thrice across her pretty shoulders, where they did bebared; and surely the blows did be very stern and sharp. And lo! in one
[EMOTION]moment Mine Own broke into an utter weeping, so that I took her instantinto mine arms, and did hold her strong and gentle against mine armour.And she to be as a child in mine arms, and did sob very strange andbitter, as that she did be all undone in the heart.And presently she did be quiet in mine arms; though I to feel how shedid yet tremble; and she did cling tight unto me, and her face to beagainst mine armour.And afterward, when that she had ceased to tremble, I kist her, andsurely her mouth did be very humble, and her lids to be downward, andshe to be something pale. And she then to be awhile more in mine arms,
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][ACTION][TRANSITION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE]very quiet; and so to come unto her dear self. And lo! presently, she towant to kiss me of her own accord; and she put up her lips, very sweetand as a loving maid, that I kiss her. And surely I kist her, with anhumble and a masterful love; and a strange pain to be about my heart, asyou shall suppose; but yet my heart and my reason both to approve mineaction; and the Maid to be but the more mine own, and to have come againto her dear natural wisdom.
[CONFLICT][PROBLEM][EMOTION][TRANSITION][DANGER]Yet, as you shall know, there to be for a long while a strange and mixedpain, in my bosom, both dreadful and tender, because that I had been sostern with Mine Own Maid; so that even while that my heart and my reasondid approve me, my heart to make somewhat of reproach. And this to havebeen someways of foolishness; but yet human of our Nature, and anwholesome trouble to the spirit, if that this troubling be not allowedto shape our actions to any harmful weakness.Now, in a while, the Maid did come to composedness, and to be verygentle and sweetly natural. And she made presently that she would haveme to loose her; and afterward, she turned her back to me, even as adear child, that I fasten her garment again upon the shoulders. And she
[EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][CONTEXT]did be both shy and glad, and humble, and in dainty pride of submission,and utter Mine Own. And surely, as I did this thing for her, I perceivedthat she lookt with a great shyness at the belt which did be yet in myhand. And when that I had made an end of fastening her garment, she didnestle unto me for a while, and afterward stood away and made shyly toshow me that I put her belt again about her pretty waist. And I saw thatshe did be somewhat a-lack yet that she touch the belt, because that Ihad whipt her with it.
[FLASHBACK]And truly you to perceive how her heart did be in this matter; but ifyou not to know, then how shall I to tell you; and do but bid you askyour own maid; though, in verity, she to be like that she but laugh atyou, and leave you so wise as you be now; for the way of the heart of amaid doth be most hid to the maid, and she but to know the desire, andto lack the ending. But truly she doth know when that a man shall setthe truth of her heart before her.Now, when I had buckled the belt very nice again about Mine Own, we wentbackward a space, until that we found the bundle, which she had dropt,when that she ran off from me. And I saw also the portion of the strap,which she cut; and so all to be found.
[EMOTION]And we went then at a good speed toward the river; for I was stillminded regarding the seeming of movement which there had been among thetrees; and very wishful that we have a raft made with haste, so that wemight come to the little island, where I did sleep before, upon theoutward way, as you shall remember. And I thought to have our slumberagain in that place, and to make that day's journeying something short,because that the island was near, and a good and safe place for oursleeping.And I told the Maid concerning the island; and she to be in greatdelight and interest, because that it did be one of those halts of mineoutward going, and did be all eager as a child, when that I said weshould truly have need of a raft to come to the island.And we came downward to the shore of the river, and, indeed, there didbe those two same trees, that had been my raft, there upon the shore ofthat place. And I showed these to Mine Own, and truly she did nigh to
[ACTION]weep upon them, because of her dear emotions and love, and did cut asmall branch therefrom, with her belt-knife, and put the branch whereshe did put the piece of bark; and this to be for a remembrance and anafter-delight and pondering.Now we lookt well in all parts, that we find some other small tree thatshould be fallen; and the Maid did climb a rock that did be near, with aflat top, so that she might search out around.And presently she cried out to me that there did be a tree to ourpurpose, and but an hundred paces away; and she to go with me to showme, and to aid, if need be; but, indeed I carried the tree very easy,and had it with the others; and afterward, we went about again forbranches, and these I cut from live trees, using the Diskos with careand wiseness.And with these branches to be for cross-pieces, and our belts and thestraps for binders, I set the trees together into a raft, and made itpretty good for our need, and so that no monstrous thing in the rivershould have chance to snap upward between the trees at my dear One.
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][CONFLICT][DANGER][PROBLEM][TRANSITION][ACTION][PERSPECTIVE]And when the raft was done, I gat it to the water, and the Maid did lendher strength; for the thing was heavy, as you shall think. And when thiswas done, I pushed a sharp branch downward into the shore, and I hookt abranch of the raft about this mooring, and so did be nigh ready for thevoyage.But first I did need a pole to push the raft, and did wonder now wherethe other did be gone, that I cut upon the outward way; for I had setthe pole with the two trees, as I did mind, having some vague thoughtthat mayhap I should live to come that way again.And I had a little strange unease that the pole did be gone; but scarceto know that I did be troubled, yet to set me to a new haste. And I bid
[CONFLICT][EMOTION][DANGER][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][SURPRISE]the Maid put the scrip and the pouch and her bundle secure upon theraft; and in that time I lookt well about for a sapling tree that shoulddo my purpose. And I saw that there grew an odd one a little to the sideof the flat-topt rock that the Maid had lookt from; and whilst that Icut it, the Maid did come to watch, and made pretty chatter in the timethat I trimmed the branches away.And lo! whilst that I did be part divided in mine attention between herdear talk and my work and an haste that did be born of that littleunease that was come upon me, my spirit to seem to be aware that therecame a danger anigh to us; and the Maid to have this same knowing; forshe ceased her speech, and lookt at me with somewhat of trouble. And lo!
[ACTION]in that moment, as I balanced the pole in my hands, there came the noiseof a sudden bounding to our backward part, where the trees did growsomething anigh.And I turned, instant, and lookt; and behold! there did be upon us anHumpt Man, very lumpish and mighty; and he stretched out his hands, andran at me. And I had no time to the Diskos, which did be upon the earthto my feet; and I smote the Humpt Man with the point of the pole thatdid be in my hands, and the point took him very strong and horrid in thebreast, and entered in, so that the Humpt Man gave out a strangehowling, that did be half seeming of an animal and half of an human. And
[ACTION][DEATH][EMOTION][WEAPON]he clutched at the pole that did so hurt him, and I stoopt very swiftfor the Diskos, and had it in a moment. And the Humpt Man tore the poleout of his breast, and in the same instant I ript him from the headdownward, so that he did be nigh in two halves; for I had no mercy inmine act, even though my heart did be something sorry.Now, even as the man died, there did be a sound of running in the woodbefore me; and lo! I turned very speedy to the Maid, and she was thereto my back, and had her belt-knife drawn in her hand; for she had it inher bosom, where she had put it when that I took her belt for the raft.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][DANGER][SURPRISE]And I caught the Maid about the waist with my left arm, and was comewith her to the top of the rock in two great houndings. And I set herthere upon the rock, and turned again to the way I came and swung theDiskos free; for indeed, I had seen that there did come a number of theHumpt Men among the trees.And there came running from the wood, mayhaps a great score of the HumptMen; so that it did seem to me that we did be going to die; for howshould one stand against so many, and they so quick and strong, as youshall mind.Yet, in verity, I had no despair; but did be mixt in the heart with agreat fear for Mine Own, and a strange and exulting gladness that Ishould do that day some deed for Mine Own Maid; and truly this to be thepomp of love and the heart-cry of the barbarian, as you shall say. And
this maybe; but truly I did be proper human, and to make no excusebecause that I was natural; neither have I hid anywheres aught that Idid think and feel.And whether that you approve or not, if that you condemn me, you tocondemn all Humanity, and to have vain words and vain regrettings; forthese things that be named for faults, do but be the complement of ourvirtues, and if that you slay the first, you may chance to wither thelast; for now I speak of things as they be now, and as they did be then;and nowise of lovely ideals that do live chief in the mind, and so muchin mine as any, as you to know, if that you have gone with me all alongmy way.And surely, I must cease from my thinkings, and go forward with mytelling; for the Humpt Men did come forward at a wondrous quick run, anddid swarm upward on to the rock, as that they did be panthers; and theymade no outcry; but came silent to the killing; and I saw that they didbe something smaller than he that I had but then slain. And, in verity,I did be all knit in that moment with speed and cleverness; for I splitthe heads of three, with but quick turns of my wrist, as I did wield theDiskos. And I kicked the face of another, in the same time, with my
[DEATH][CONFLICT][ACTION][MURDER]metal boot, so that he died; for there did be all my strength and all myskill working then for our salvation.Now all this to have been done in but a few beats of the heart, as Imight say; and these men to have been in the front of the attacking. Yetthere did be no space to have breath; for there leaped three more of theMen upon the rock; and one smote me with a great piece of rock that hecarried, so that mine armour did seem as that it crackt, and I to bedriven backward upon the Maid; yet had slain one of the Humpt Men, evenin that moment.And surely, my dear One caught me in her arms, behind, and steadied me,so that I fell not; and I slew the Humpt Man with the rock, even in thatmoment whilst Mine Own held me, as he came again to strike me. And I
[ACTION]then to be firm again upon my feet, and did spring at the third of theHumpt Men; and surely there was no room that he should be able to avoidme, even did that be his intent; and he came at me with a great leap.And I stood strong, looking clearly to my work; and I swung the Diskoswith both my hands, and the blow took the Humpt Man in the middle part,and split him, whilst that he did be yet leaping. And in that instantthere reached over the edge of the rock, two of the Humpt Men, and gatme by the feet; so that I was pulled sudden to my back very hard andbitter; and this to be done, even whilst that the body of the Humpt Mandid be yet in the air. And the body came forward over me, and did beutter dead already, and fell down upon the rock beyond me, and rolledhorridly and went over the edge of the rock.
[CONFLICT][ACTION]And I did be all shaken and something bemused by the hardness of myfall; and the hands of the two Humpt Men pluckt me sharp to the edge ofthe rock, the while that I did strike vaguely to wound them; but didonly chip the rock, and fortunate that I harmed not the weapon.And lo! in the moment that they had been like to have me downward tothe earth into their midst, I to make a good stroke, for I cut theshoulder of one very dreadful, so that he loosed me; and immediately, Ikicked very fierce with my freed foot, and surely I nigh crushed thehand of that other with my metal boot; and he likewise to cease fromdragging upon me.And immediately, I knew that Mine Own did be helping me that I getinstant to my feet again; for I was yet something dazed.
[SURPRISE][DANGER][DEATH][EMOTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][ACTION][WEAPON][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE][FLASHBACK][TRANSITION][SETTING]And there came then a rush of the Humpt Men up the rock; and truly itdid be a glad thing for our lives that they might come up only upon butone side; for the other sides did be utter steep and smooth worn; andthis to have been unto our saving, as you shall think.And I stood up to the rush of the Humpt Men, and did smite hard at them,with a quick circling of the Diskos, so that the great weapon did glowand roar. And they gave back from the blaze and the sound of the Diskos;and surely then I ran in upon them, whilst that they did be somethingbewildered; and I gat the foremost man full upon the head, so that hedid be dead before he did know what thing happened. Yet, in verity, thisdid be a dread moment to me; for the Humpt Men leaped in at me uponevery side in an instant of time; and I did be struck upon my head-pieceand upon my back and breast with the stones that certain of them didcarry, so that I rockt as I stood, and did near to swoon, and minearmour to be all dint and bent upon me, and I truly to seem that I hadcome to the time of my dying.
[CONFLICT][EMOTION][SURPRISE][ACTION]And lo! in that moment of time, there did come to my dazed sense a lowand bitter cry of anguish from the Maid; and this to set all my lifeaglow in me. And, in verity, there went a strange greyness of furybefore mine eyes, and I then to fight as I did never fight before; and Idid smite as it did seem forever. And the greyness did ease from mineeyes, and the Maid did have her arms about me as I stood, and the deadMen to lie heapt upon the rock, and Mine Own to steady me, for I did benear slain and the blood did go from me, and mine armour was all brokeupon me by the smitings of the sharp stones.
And I lookt something slowly upon Mine Own; and she to know that I wouldask whether that she did be harmed anywise; and she to be very bravewith me, and to tell me that she did be well; and she to be all slain inthe heart, because that I did be so hurt; but truly I had fought a goodfight, and did lack only to know that she come to no harm. Now my witsdid come back into me very soon; but I did be utter weak, and scarce tostand; so that I did mind only that I get Mine Own safe unto the raft,and to put off then from the shore.And I walkt slow to the edge of the rock, and lookt well about, that Ilearn whether the Humpt Men did be all gone away; and the Maid didsteady me.And lo! there came up in that instant the last of the Humpt Men, and
[DANGER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CONFLICT]they were five and did creep very stealthy, that they have me insurprise. And I loost from the Maid, for I saw that I must come uponthem whilst that I had any strength left in my body; and they now toleap upward unto me, so that I gat the first upon the head, and he to gobackward dead; but truly I did be more weak than I knew; for I swayedupon the edge of the rock, and sudden I went downward to the earth; anddid be there upon my knees, and my back to the rock.And, in verity, the Humpt Men did come in upon me very swift; yet didthey give back from the Diskos, which I swung to and fro, so speedy as Imight, for my weakness, which did be so utter that I could nowise cometo my feet to stand.And Mine Own came down swiftly from the rock, and ran past the HumptMen, and I to make that I shout to her to go to the raft; but truly Ihad no voice in my body, and did be dumb and weak, and did know that Ishould be gone forever from Mine Own in a little moment, and she to havenone to protect her, neither to know the way of our journey, save byreason.
[ACTION][DANGER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][MONSTER]And behold! Mine Own did shout to the Humpt Men, and I perceived thatshe made to draw them after her; for she ran to and fore and did shoutcontinually. But, indeed, the Humpt Men had no heed of her; but did makealway to come at me; and surely, in that moment, one of the Humpt Menreached me, and smote me so shrewd that sure he nigh crackt hismonstrous hand upon mine armour, and did drive me backward upon therock, and to make me bleed afresh, so that I was all in a daze and nearswooned away. And the Humpt Man caught at the Diskos; yet, in verity, heloost it on the instant, for it did burn and shake him very sore; andimmediately, he smote me again, and so made to end me.
And lo! in that moment, the Maid ran right in among the Humpt Men, andshe struck the man that strove with me, and drove her belt-knife onceand again through his arm, very savage and determined. And surely, theman turned upon her, and he caught her by her garments, and he ript hertwo garments utter from her, so that they came away and she did be free.And behold, mine utter despair for her did give me a new strength, sothat I shouted to her that she run instant to the raft; and I cut theHumpt Man in twain, and did fall back then into a part swoon against therock. And lo! the Maid ran out from the Humpt Men; but they neither to
[CONFLICT][SURPRISE]know whether that they follow her or that they come in upon me; and asthey did pause, she to call to them, and to try that she tempt them fromme toward the wood; for she had no thought of her life, but only thatshe free me and save me; and I too weak even to have power to commandher to the raft; and she, truly, to have no heed to such command, evendid I thus to call again. And there I did be, half-gone out from thislife, and lookt at her with eyes that did scarce wot, save as in adream.And lo! the Humpt Men ceased sudden that they heed her; and the threethat did be left came very sly unto me, and with slowness and cunning;for they wotted not whether I did be dead, or but a-wait for them. And
the Maid perceived that they came not after her; and she let out a greatcry that did be distant-seeming in my dulled ears, and came back, naked,and running very swift. And she ran by me as death should run, white andsilent and her face set unto despair, and her eyes utter intent. And shestruck her belt-knife into the shoulder of the near Humpt Man; and theMan howled and turned, and she did leap to the side, and the Humpt Manran at her. But lo! she leaped again this way and that, and utter
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][DANGER][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR][ACTION][PROBLEM]silent, and so quick as a light doth seem to dance all ways in a moment.And the two other Men did join with the first, that they catch her; andbehold! she went about, and did run right away among the trees, and thethree Men did come after her, running very lumbersome, yet with a greatspeed.And the Maid had the knife in her hand, and I knew that she did mean toslay herself presently, when that she could run no more; and in thatmoment it seemed that my heart burst; for that I should never more seeMine Own Maid forever. And there came some power of movement into me,
[HORROR]and I came forward from the rock and fell over upon my face. And I gatagain to my knees, and began that I creep after the Maid, and I didshout in whispers, for my voice had no more power to call. And the Maidwent from my sight among the trees, as a far white figure, that did runvery swift, and was presently lost utter to my sight; and the Humpt Mendid go after; yet even in my weakness, I perceived that two did gosomething clumsy, as that they had been hurt in the fight; and they tobe the rearward of the chasing; but he that the Maid did cut with theknife was to the fore, and did run very strong; and surely they were allgone inward of the trees with a dreadful speed, and were lost from me.And the world did become sudden an Emptyness and a great Horror, andthere was no sound in all the Earth, as it did seem. And I knew that I
[HORROR]was come to my feet, and did run toward the trees, and the Diskos didtrail from mine arm by the hold-buckle; and the ground did be as that itmoved and shifted under me, and I not to feel where I trod, but did onlypeer desperate and lost among the trees; and, as I to know now, I heardmy voice calling strangely; and afterward there was a thundering in mineears, and I came downward upon my face.And I did know presently that I was alive, and there to be some dreadfulterror at my heart; and surely I did remember and sickened and gat myhead from the ground. And I lookt among the trees; but there did benothing, and everywhere there did be a strange silence and a dimness ofunreal seemings. And I knew that Mine Own was gone from me, and hadsurely died. And the earth did be all stained about me with my blood,
and I did be utter glad; for I to need death.And I swooned again and was lost to my pain; but did live presently toknow.And there was a little strength come into me, and I gat my head upsomewhat from the ground, and did peer among the trees; and my head didbe too heavy, and my face came against the earth once more. And becausethat I could not hold up my head, I rolled my head a little, until thatmy cheek did be to the ground, and I to look thiswise, so well as Imight; but there did be nothing; and afterward, I rolled my head againto the other cheek, and so to stare very weak and desperate, and notabled to look proper to my front. And lo! there went something among the
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][WITCH]trees, and did show white in the gloom of the wood; and did come throughthe trees. And I not to believe in the first that I did truly see aught;and sudden I to know that I saw somewhat. And behold! my heart did boundin me, so that all my body did waken; for I knew that Mine Own Maid didrun slow and staggering toward me, through the wood. And I did be now
[EMOTION]upon my knees and upon my hands, and did begin again to creep and tobleed; and did make little callings to Mine Own, that had no sounding.And Mine Own drew nigh, and did rock and stagger, and did strike anonagainst the trunks of the trees, as that she did be gone near blind withher running. And in a moment she saw me, and that I did yet live and didcome unto her; and she made a strange and loving crying unto me, with agreat gladness and with an utter weakness.And she came running, and was lost with faintness, and did sway this wayand that, stumbling; and she went sudden to the earth, and did be still.
[PROBLEM][SURPRISE]And I crept onward so speedy as I might, and the earth to seem alway asthat it moved from my hands, and to slide; and this-seeming to be of myweakness; for my hands and my knees went everyway, and my head to bethat it kept nodding forward very stupid to the earth.And lo! as I came anigh unto the Maid, where she did lie so quiet, I sawthat something moved in the wood, and was running. And truly it did bean Humpt Man, and came forward very silent and with a quick slyness, asthat he did track the Maid secretly; for he lookt alway to the earth.
[DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][HORROR]And I perceived that he was that one of the Humpt Men which the Maid hadcut with the knife; for the blood did show upon the shoulder and thebreast; and this bleeding mayhap to have slowed the Man; so that MineOwn did be like to have supposed she had come utter free; yet he to havefound her, by tracking, as I perceived.And I strave to my feet, that I should come to the Maid, before theHumpt Man; and surely I gat upright, and went with a strange running,and did roll, and lo! I fell immediate, ere I was come to her. And theHumpt Man to run also; and surely it did be a dreadful race; for I wentcreeping and did be weak and as that I was of lead. And the Humpt Man
[ACTION][DEATH][CONFLICT][DANGER][WEAPON][PROBLEM]came very swift and brutish; but I came the first to Mine Own Maid. AndI rose up at the Humpt Man, upon my knees, and I swung the Diskos, andthe great weapon did roar in my hands, as that it did know and did live.And the Humpt Man ran in upon me; but I smote him truly with the Diskos,and he ran past me, all blundering, and fell and died upon his face, alittle way off.And lo! my wounds had brake out into a great bleeding, and my head did
[EMOTION][CONFLICT]roll upon my shoulders. And I lookt down dull, yet with an utter greatlove upon Mine Own; and there did be no proper wound upon her; but yetwas she all bruised and knockt and marked with the trees, and where shedid fall in her running. And she did be there, very still and dear, andI to have brake my heart with love for her, but that I did be so dulled,as I have told.And I fought that I should be strong a little while more against myweakness; and I strove that I set mine ear gently upon her breast, thatI should listen for her heart. But my head did go downward something
[SURPRISE]clumsy and heavy upon her; and I then to hearken, and surely she didlive and her heart did beat; though, in verity, mine ears did have atfirst a thundering; but afterward a quietness in them, that made thesounding of her pulsing to seem an utter long way off; and very faint itdid be. And surely, in that moment, even as I harked, I was gone overinto a deadness, and had no more knowing; neither to have even aknowledge that I did be slipt from my senses. And, behold, the Maid didlie swooning; and I to be there in my broken armour, and my head uponthe breast of Mine Own, and likewise to know naught; and about us thequietness of that Country, and the far noise of the great Fire-Hillsthat did sound through Eternity.XIVON THE ISLANDNow I came unto my senses, and did be in pain and a great forgetfulnessand bewilderment. And I strove that I rise; but did be held by a strange
[PROBLEM][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][WITCH]force, that did be surely my weakness, as I to know afterward.And I was upon my back; and a little sound did be near me, as thatsomething did pant. And I turned my head, very slow, because that I didso lack of strength. And lo! I saw that the Maid did be anigh to me, and
[SURPRISE][EMOTION]did be yet naked; and did pant, and pusht hard and desperate with agreat pole, which did be surely that one which I had cut when that theHumpt Men came upon us. And therewith I remembered all, and perceivedthat I did be upon the raft, and the Maid to push the raft along withthe pole.And, at that, I made a little sound with my mouth; but the Maid not tohear me; for she did look backward, as I should think to the shore; andher face did be very set and anxious; and there to be a far noise ofhowling, that I knew to be the voices of the Humpt Men; and so toperceive that the Maid had come unto her senses, and had gat me somewiseto the raft, whilst that I did yet be swoond. And thus to save me erethe Humpt Men had come. But, in verity, how she did this thing, I never
to learn; neither she to know, but only that her love did give her agreat and desperate strength that she save me, that did be her man.And afterward, Mine Own Maid did tell me how that she had come into hersenses, and did be there upon the earth, and somewhat did be upon herbreast; and she saw that it was my head which did be heavy upon her, andI to be surely gone out from this life; for I was so still.And she came from under me, and did ease me out upon the earth, and herheart nigh brake, because that I was so be-bled, and my blood to havestained all that did be near. But when she had gat me restful, she sawthat I did surely live; and a great hope to spring in her heart. And
[DANGER][ACTION][EMOTION][PROBLEM][GHOST]oft, as she had eased me, she had lookt about, and there did be naughtto the sight, save the body of the Humpt Man anigh, and the others deadabout and upon the flat-topped rock, as you to mind.And she ran then very speedy to the raft, and brought water from theriver in my headpiece, and she dasht the water upon me; but I to have nopower to come unto my senses. And lo! in that moment, she to know bysome subtile telling of the spirit, that there came some danger anigh;and she then to make that she save me, or that we die both of ustogether. And she strave with me, and did carry and draw me that
[ACTION][DANGER][CONFLICT][SURPRISE]weariful way unto the raft. And she gat me on to the raft; and she ranthen for the pole that did be beside the rock; and whilst that she tookthe pole, she perceived her torn garments, that did be yet in the handsof the Humpt Man, even as she had slipt them to escape him. And shecaught the garments very hasty from the hand of the Man, and ran then tothe raft; and she pusht the raft out from the shore, and leaped aboard;and behold! as she made to use the pole, there came a sound out of thewood. And there ran from the wood the two Humpt Men that did yet live;
and they to have trackt her, after that she did run from them; and theyran downward to the shore, very silent and intent upon her; but she towork with an utter despair, and to have the raft a good way out, erethey did be come. And surely, they either to have no power of swimming,or to know that there did be a Dread in the water; for they made not tocome after; but did stand and stare very stupid, and afterward to howl;and this howling I did hear when that I was come unto myself upon theraft, as you do know. And by this telling, you to be so wise as I; formore I know not, save odd things that I did learn afterward, that didbut set my love more holy unto Mine Own Maid; and these to have been butsmall matters of love-thoughts that we did have together; and scarceclear unto my remembering.And lo! even as I harked unto the howling of the Humpt Men, the sound
[DEATH][CONFLICT][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][DANGER][RELIEF]did grow more faint and far off; for the Maid worked very desperate withthe pole. And I did feel that I would help her; but yet was so a-lack;and surely, even as I did mean to rise, I was gone again utter from mysenses; and that dear naked One did pilot me safe and loving unto thesafe harbouring of the little island, that you do mind; and had nothought unto herself; but only that she save me. And I to be there,scarce offward from my death, and to have no knowing of aught, and nomore power to help or to be a shield unto Mine Own; but did be only anhelpless man, that had surely died, save for the care of My Beloved.Yet did I fight a good fight, and have alway a great joy in theremembering.
Now, I mind nothing very clear after this for a great time; but only ofpain and weariness, and of half wakings and times when I did knownaught, and others when that I did be awake, yet did have no realness,either in myself or in any land or place; and all to come back strangeand vague; yet with a constant knowing that there went Love about me,and a great and gentle watchfulness; so that I was eased when that theblack mists of my weakness did uprise about me to swamp me; and I wasmade to know hope, when that unknown despairs did live stealthy withinme.And lo! there came a time when I waked, and did be freed of uncertainburdenings and peculiar woes and that still haze through which greatachings did come constant upon me. And surely, I was laid very nice uponsomewhat that did be soft, and there went a sweet quietness about me,and an healthful drowse did grow in my bones.
[EMOTION]And slowly I perceived that the Maid did kneel beside me, and did lookupon me with so great a love and gladness that it did be as that I drankin health and a drowsy joy and peace. And surely, she stoopt and kiss mewith an utter gentle love, upon my mouth, and her tears to go sweet uponmy face; and truly I kist her again, with an utter content.And she took my head in the comfort of her arm, and gave me somewhatthat I drink; and when I had drunk, she kiss me once again, so light asthat a pretty wind did blow hushed upon my lips. And my head she madeeasy; and lo! I was gone over unto sleep, even as she tended me.
[CONFLICT]And thrice do I mind that this to happen; and at the third time, I knewthat my strength was come something into me again; and I moved my hand alittle, this way and that; and she to know that I did need her to holdmy hand; and she to do this, and I to go into sleep again, even whilethat I look sleepy, yet with all my love, into her eyes.And when I waked for the fourth time, I did whisper that I loved her;and surely she broke into a sudden weeping, and did hold my hand verydear against her breast.And when I waked for the fifth time, I to know how things did be aboutme, and that I did lie naked in the cloak, and did be all bandaged aboutmy body; and the bandages, as I did know afterward, did be from the torngarments of the Maid.And I look at the Maid, and knew that she did be drest again, and did bein the garments that I did give to her, as you to mind; which did bethat one, and the inner, that the Humpt Man tore from her, and which shehad slipt, that she escape from the Man.
[EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][RELIEF][WITCH]And afterward, I found that she had made a very cunning mend of thegarments, whilst that she did sit so utter long beside me to tend me;for she had gotten threads from her torn garments, and had made needlesfrom thorns that did grow on the little bushes of the island; and thethorns did brake oft, and she then to have another, and so to persist anhundred times. And this way she did be drest very nice and dainty.And Mine Own Maid perceived how that I lookt with interest at her, anddid mind, very natural, how that I last to have seen her; and she thento blush gently; and did kiss me, that she have her pretty facesomething from mine eyes. And truly, I to wish the more that I bestrong, that I kneel in a glad reverence unto her; for this way did bemy love, and ever so; and you likewise, that have truly loved.
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][CONFLICT]Now I did begin that I grew very steady unto my strength, again, andMine Own Maid did tend me alway, and she gave me a broth of tablets andthe water at set times, by the telling of my timepiece. And oft shewasht me and did change the bandages, and did wash and dry the bandages,that she use them over again; for we did be so lacking for such matters,as you to know.And on the fifth day, I was come utter to ease; and did be wondroushappy, and Mine Own to make pretty talk unto me; but had me to be alwayquiet, because that I did be yet so weak.And on the sixth day, I to be let answer Mine Own, and to say how greatI did love her, the which mine eyes had said alway, while that I did liein silence. And I to be assured by the Maid that she did be in health,
[TRANSITION][ACTION][CONFLICT]and recovered; but indeed, I saw that she was gone very thin, and thather eyes did be weary, even while that they had so great a love and agladness to me.And I made Mine Own to bring her tablets by me, as she did alway, andwhen that I had kist them, and she to have eat and drunk, I bade her tomake me the broth ready; and when she had made the broth, I askt thatthe Diskos be set anigh to me. And afterward, I bid her to my side, andhad her to lie by me; and I took her pretty head upon mine arm, and toldher that she to lie thus and to sleep, and to have no fear that sheweary me; for that I to be but the more rested to have her so, besideme.And she in the first to trouble that she be too heavy for mine arm; buttruly, I showed that my strength was something come back to me; for Iprest her gentle unto me, and she then to nestle content, and to be goneinto an utter sleep, and to have been in a sore need of the same.
[WEAPON][PERSPECTIVE]And Mine Own did sleep for twelve great hours, and had scarce any lifein all that time, save when once she did make a little and gentlemoaning, and did afterward set her pretty face more nigh to me in hersleep. And surely, I had neither weariness nor lonesomeness; but did liewith an utter content; and did look downward upon the Maid, where shedid sleep in the hollow of mine arm; and truly she did be most wondrouslovely and dainty; and the goodness of her face did seem as that it madean holiness about my heart, so that my spirit was uplift in a quiet andconstant glory of love.And I drank a part of the broth at the third hour, and at the sixthhour, and at the ninth hour, when that I finished it; and my right armdid be free to this purpose and to the Diskos; and surely I did twiceand thrice set my hand upon that great weapon, as to a true comrade;and, in verity, I could think the weapon did know and did love me. Andthis thinking to be because I did be so uplift, as I have told; yettruly, the Diskos did be a strange and wondrous thing, and did be alwaythought to have an oneness with the man that did use it.
And in the twelfth hour, the Maid awoke sudden, and came upward out ofmine arm, all in a sweet haste, that she know that I did be well; andshe did be eased wondrous, when that she saw how I laughed with a quietjoy but to see her dear eyes, and her pretty trouble. Yet did she be inreproach to herself, when that she lookt to find how the hours had past.But, indeed, I did make a mocking sternness with her; and forbad thatshe even to say one little word more upon this matter; but to be gladthat I did be so utter happy, and she likewise.And truly, when I had said this, that impudent Maid did set her littlefist against my nose, and to threaten me. And, in verity, I laught so
hearty that the Maid did be in fear I should set my wounds again tobleed, and did reproach herself again; but, in truth, I came to no harm.And when that I could speak, I askt the Maid whether that there had beenbrothers to her, because that she did play so natural. And this I askt,not thinking; and lo! in a moment I perceived my thoughtlessness; butsaid naught, save to take the hand of Mine Own, that she know utter thatI did not be heartless. And she to nod very quiet, and afterward kist my
hand, and slipt from me. And I knew that she was gone a little way off,lest she weep; and I did be in trouble for her and for mine a-lackness;but truly I could do naught, only that I called very gentle unto her.And she to return soon, and did smile loving and cheerful upon me; but,indeed, I saw that she covered her weeping, whilst that she had made menew broth. Yet, before I would take the broth, I would have her to minearms; and she to submit very glad and happy, but to keep her prettyweight from me, lest she hurt my woundings.
[WITCH]And afterward, we both to eat, and be happy in glad talk.And presently, I did sleep; but would have her to be nigh to me, eventhough she did be wakeful; and so we to be utter content together.Now, the seventh day, as it might be called, was a wondrous happy time;and when I waked, the Maid did be sleeping as a child to my side, andher face nestled against me. And she to waken in a moment; for thus hadshe drowsed and watched through all the hours whilst that I had slept.
And we then to eat and to drink together, after that Mine Own had mademe easy with a gentle washing and care. And I now to be allowed that Ihave my tablets whole, and the water afterward, as when that I did bewell; and this to please me, as you shall think; for I did ache that Ibe strong very speedy, that I have power to guard Mine Own Maid again,and to go forward with our journeying, that I have the Maid unto thesafeness of the Mighty Pyramid; and surely, now that I had my tabletswhole, I to feel that I did grow near unto fitness again; and moreover,they did satisfy my hunger the better than the broth.And the Maid to give me my tablets oft, so that I eat a great many; andI did make her to count; and surely there did be sufficient, if that Iget strong pretty quick. And so I made no refusing of the tablets; for Idid need them, that I make blood again within me, else should I belacking, when that there came any need anigh.
And we kist each the tablets of the other, and did drink from the samecup, and did be utter happy; and did be part like children, but also tobe man and maid.And presently, the Maid did shift my bandages, as alway, and washt meproper, and had me into comfort. But she did keep me alway verylow-lying; and truly I scarce to mind; for I was not gotten enough of mystrength, to give me to feel irked. And further, as you shall think,there did be that lovely One with me alway; and did make sweet quipsunto me, and talkt and did laugh, and oft did come into singing; for shedid be so sweetly joyed that I was in life and did mend so proper.
And afterward, she went off from me a little, to her toilet; but I toask that she be so swift as might be, and she to promise very merry; andshe came back in a little while, and her hair to be in a lovely cloudabout her shoulders, and her pretty feet yet to be bared from her bath,which she had in a pool beyond some bushes; and she to say that I did beso impatient a man, that she to be forced that she do the half of herdressing with me; but truly, she came thiswise only because she to knowhow I did delight in her thus, and to watch the way that she set up herabundance of hair; and she to be hungry also that she be with me, and tolove me that I watch her, even while that there did be oft a little andquaint stirring of shyness in her dear heart.And I had her to come beside me, and to sit anigh to my hand; and I madepresently that I did scold her, because that she had no proper care toher pretty feet; and I bid her to set her feet toward me, that I lookthe more close at them. And she to be a pretty rogue, and did think I tomean to kiss them--and truly not to think alway wrong--but I then tohave another planning; for I had pluckt a hair very sly from her head,and she but to have said an Oh! to me, and to have thought no more. But,
[EMOTION][METAPHOR][SURPRISE]indeed, when that she gave her feet to me, I held them so strong as Imight, and I bound her pretty toes together with the hair; and surelyshe did be a captive unto me, and we to laugh, as that we to be bothchildren. And afterward she stole back her feet from me; but, in verity,I knew that she had a wondrous heed that she brake not the hair thatbound her; but did sit beside me bound in that pretty way; but yet tohide from me that she did not brake the hair.And she then to do her hair upon her head, very lovely; and afterward,I put up my hands, and took it down again; and she then to kiss me andto ask how that she should ever have it proper upon her head, if that Idid alway so tease her.And she then to take her hair, and did set the abundance of it upon bothsides of my face, and then to kiss me, as I did look up at her, from outof so much beauty.
[CONFLICT][EMOTION][SURPRISE][PROBLEM]And afterward she cut a lock of my hair, and a lock from her own dearhead; and she did plait the two locks together, so that our hair didblend and be together; and afterward she hid it in her bosom. But I didbe then out of content, and would have done likewise, only that it didso weary me to uphold my hands; and she to cut a second lock from myhead, and a second tress of her own most lovely hair; and she made me tokiss the hair that did be from her, and she then to kiss the hair thatdid be from me; and afterward, she did plait them together, and gavethem to me. And I set the hair, for that time, under the great bandagethat went over my heart; and truly, she did be then the one that lacktcontent; for she to say that the second plaiting did be kist, and thefirst to lack; but I to refuse to exchange; so that we made up aquarrelling, and did presently have to be kist, unto forgiveness. And,truly, have you not likewise known such glad foolishness, when that youwere in the love-days.
And she then to make me to be quiet, and to keep my hands downward fromher hair, because that the uplifting did prove overmuch to me; and shetook my great hands then, and did threaten how dreadful she use me, ifthat I be not humble. And truly, I said that I did be an humble man; andshe then to hold my hands with but one small one; and surely, her handdid be so small that she not able to hold me, save by the thumbs. Andshe then with her free hand to cover mine eyes, so that I might not see;and whilst that she did hold me thus so utter helpless, she to kiss mevery dainty and impudent upon the mouth; and afterward she loost me, anddid be demure.And we did be then silent a space; and presently, I put forth my hand,that did be very great, yet to be gone white and to tremble, becausethat I did lack so utter of blood. And the Maid to know what I did mean,
[EMOTION]and she clenched her hands into two fists, and set them both into my onehand, and surely they did be little fists; and I then to be happy; forthis did be a wondrous pleasure alway unto me; and she to have her lidsa little downward upon her eyes, and to be quietly happy. And, truly,how I mind it all so plain.And afterward, I did plague her very gentle that she to be all a-lack,if that she did try to use her hands to aught, because that they did beso small. And she in a moment to have her two arms very dear about myneck, and did kiss me with an utter love and tenderness upon the mouth,and afterward went from me, lest that she have me to overset myself.
[DEATH][FLASHBACK][EMOTION]And I did then to make her to sit by me, and I did tell her a tale howthat a young man did once live in the olden days, and did meet with theOne Maid Upon All The Earth. And how that they loved and did be married,and she to die, and of the utter and desperate madness of grief thatnigh destroyed the man; and how that he sudden to wake into the futureof the world, in a New Time, and did come to learn that His Own did alsoto live in that Time. And he then to make that he find her; and didtruly come unto her. And how she did be different in her beauty; but yetto be utter lovely. And the man did hold an utter reverence to the Maid,
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][CHARACTERIZATION][METAPHOR][PROBLEM][CONTEXT][HORROR]that had been his wife in the olden dream-days, so that his reverence oflove did live in him like a constant pain and anguish of sweetness andtrouble, and of holy thoughts that did be bred of her lovelycompanionship, and of his memories.... But, in truth, I gat not further
[EMOTION]in the tale than this; for Mine Own did have come sudden into weeping,and had gotten to her knees, and did hold my hand against her breast,and did put her hand gentle upon my lips. And, in a moment, she towhisper somewhat through her tears; and there to be dear Motherhoodwithin her face; and a sudden shining of Memory in her eyes, that hadbeen near dreadful, only that it did seem to be to her as that she werepart dreaming. And the strange and solemn pain did come also unto methrough the part-open gateways of my Memory. And I to remember veryclear and with an anguish in that moment. And I told Mine Own how that
[SURPRISE][WITCH]the babe had gone onward, after that the Beloved had died. And there didbe then an utter quiet upon us.And lo! sudden the Maid did bend unto me, and I to take her into minearms, out of the vague dreamings of her Memory-dreams. But, ere she didbe come outward entire from the haze of the Past, she to try to setsomewhat into words concerning this memory-vision of the babe; butsomeways to be strangely dumb. And I did be silent likewise, because of
[TRANSITION][RELIEF][EMOTION]all those things that did be between us forever and forever.And presently, she kist me, and was herself again; and she went from meto attend unto our food.Now, that did be truly a lovely day; for I to have gat sufficient ofstrength that I did be able to have interest, and talk with Mine OwnMaid; and she now to be well rest, and to have ease in her dear heartconcerning me.And surely we oft to laugh, and did make jests utter glad and foolish.
[METAPHOR][SURPRISE]And indeed, I do mind how that I askt Mine Own an olden puzzle, that didcome out of the vagueness of my Memory-dreams. And she to be like aperson that doth hear a strange familiar thing; and lo! sudden she tosay, as that she gat knowledge from beyond Eternity, that it did be whenthat he was a little hoarse. And you to know the jest, and to havetroubled it oft at school; but, in verity, it did be a strange thing tohave from our Memories out of all the deep of Time. And we, in truth,never in that Age to have seen or to have known that ever there did bean Horse, or to mind the likeness of one. And this to be but a little
[CONFLICT][EMOTION][TRANSITION]matter; yet of strange and peculiar interest, as you to agree. And,indeed, we did both to look one at the other, when that we had ended,and did wonder what an horse did be; yet in the same time did have avague inward knowing.And so we to look ever backward through dim Ages; and surely we gatpresently from jests, unto solemnness; and the Maid to be nigh againunto tears. And, in truth, I then to bring our thoughts and our speechforward from the Abyss of the Years, and did cease from Memory-dreamingfor that time; and so to have the Maid again in joy; yet mayhapsomething wistful odd whiles.
[EMOTION][GHOST]And presently, I to tell the Maid an hundred thousand things concerningthe Mighty Pyramid, of which I had so oft said somewhat; but never tohave gat so great a chance as this unto a plenty of time and so nice anoneness in the way that our minds did go.And surely, the Maid did be eager in a moment, and did be husht; andagain to ask constant concerning all matters.And, in verity, there went a great while this way; and the Maid to havean utter wonder and excitement of all that I to tell; for truly, it didbe as that a man of this age should come downward from a great star inthe heavens, and to tell of wonders and new things; and you tounderstand how she did feel.And of all things that did most have a happiness unto the Maid, I toperceive that the great Life and Humanness of the Millions to dwellwithin her imaginings as a cloud of warmth and quiet joy; for I did showthis thing to her, so well as I was able; and, in truth, you shall tellme in honesty whether that I have made the same likewise clear-seen untoyou?
And she, as you shall mind, did be a maid that had grown all her life ina Refuge that did be shaken with hauntings, because that it lackt thepower of the Earth-Current to protect; and with a People that did beweak-conceived through great thousands of years; and where love didbloom something faded, even in youth; and youth to have lack of thelife-blood of an utter joy, such as did be ours and likewise to manythat did be of the Mighty Pyramid.Though, truly, there did go millions then, as now, that did never toknow love; though the name did be in their mouths, and they to havebelief that the sweet kernel did be in their hearts; but, in verity,THIS to be love, that your life shall bound in you with abundance, andjoy dwell round you, and your spirit to live in a natural holiness withthe Beloved, and your bodies to be a sweet and natural delight thatshall never be lost of a lovely mystery that doth hold a perfect peaceeach unto the need of the other; and all to be that there go roundabout you a wonder and a splendour all the days and the nights that youshall be--the Man with the Woman, the Woman with the Man. And Shame tobe unborn, and all things to go natural and wholesome, out of an uttergreatness of understanding; and the Man to be an Hero and a Child beforethe Woman; and the Woman to be an Holy Light of the Spirit and an utterCompanion and in the same time a glad Possession unto the Man. And lo!
[SETTING][CHARACTERIZATION][EMOTION]if one to die, then the soul of the other shall fail; and that one neverto have full life again, in that bitter parting. And this doth be thetrue Human Love; and all else that be not like to this with the Man andwith the Woman, doth be but a borrowing of the name of Love for thatquiet desiring, which is but an Endurance beside Love, which doth bebetween they that be not mated both in their souls and in their bodies.And this telling to take no heed to those base joinings that be made forpurposes of wealth or Desire or other piteous ends; for, in verity,these to have no more dealings with the thing that I do tell upon, thanhath the merchanting of goods, or the _need_ of a glutton. But the thingthat I do have upon my heart doth be that dear and uplifting Power ofLove, which I to set forth in this mine own story; for, in truth, I tohave known love, and to need death when that I be parted from Mine Own.
[FLASHBACK]Now, surely, Mine Own did come twice and thrice unto weeping, as I didtell of this thing and that, which did set her memory backward unto theways of the Lesser Redoubt. And presently, I did cease from my tellings,because that she did so be gone into pain of her memories. But, indeed,she then to beg me that I go forward again; for, truly, she to need inthe heart that she know, and to strive to be no more in grief for thetelling.And I then to say on, and did tell upon the Might and Wonder and greatOlden Delight of the Underground Fields, that were below the GreatRedoubt, as you do know. And I told how that they went downward an
hundred strange miles, that did be dug of the labour of Millions and ofthe years of Eternity.And I set out unto Mine Own concerning that there did be wondrousvillages spread through that great and hidden Country that did be in theunderground; and how that great millions of the Peoples did live there,and made a constant labour in those deep Lands and Countries, that didbe truly so monstrous in all as an huge Continent.And I showed Mine Own how that there did be wondrous processes that didbe learned in the Ages; and how that water did be made in chemistry; andtruly she to nod to this, because that she did mind upon the powder thatwe did use; but truly the powder to have to be made in the first, as youshall think; and we but to advantage ourselves of that which did result,and I to speak to her of the making of the powder, rather than of theway that it afterward to make chemistry with the air, unto water.And I told the Maid how that there did be mighty underground pipes thatwent across the Night Land, and did be, mayhap, oft so much as twentygreat miles deep in the world, and did come upward into the seas of theLand; and all to have been made secret and hid from the monsters of theLand, as I to know from much readings of the Histories.
[SURPRISE]And Mine Own then to tell me that they did lack to have any such greatwonders below the Lesser Redoubt; but that there did be utter monstrouscaverns, where that there had been alway a strange and uncouth Countryof Husbandry, and lit from the Earth-Current; and they also there tobury their Dead. And all had been a-lack through great thousands ofyears, as she did know of their Records, and had grown dim-lit andlonesome, and a Land of deepness to starve the spirit with an utterstrangeness and discomfort, where that the men went quietly as ghosts,through many ages; and all a place in dire want of sound and laughter.Yet this all to have been surely different a monstrous Age gone, whenthat the Earth-Current did be a power in the Lesser Redoubt, and theHumans to be in plenty, and of good and natural health and courage oflife. And, truly, to mind upon that Place, doth alway to set a freshwonder in me, that Mine Own did be so lovely and wholesome of spirit andwise and in knowledge and good force of her being. But so it did be with
[METAPHOR][EMOTION][CHARACTERIZATION][HAUNTED HOUSE]her; and she to have been surely alway That One that did be Mine Own.And I then to tell Mine Own Maid concerning the lowest Field, which didbe the Country of Silence, and was the Place of Memory unto all thegreat Millions, where did linger and bide the ghosts of an hundredbillion griefs and the drifted thoughts of sorrowful hearts; and thereto live a great hallowedness and a mystery of silence and an holinessand a Greatness, as that it did be the Expressing of all that doth beNoble and Everlasting that ever did come out of the heart of Man and allthe lost Dead of Eternity; so that the spirit of a man did seem to go ongreat wings, unto lovely and splendid resolvings, if that he but to walklonely awhile in that Country, that surely did be never lonesome untothe spirit.And lo! the Maid did be all husht, as I did speak, and did look downwardunto me with her eyes very bright, and lovely with the thinkings andtears that did stir within her.
[EMOTION][GHOST]And sudden she to ask whether that I did make my resolve to my journey,whilst that I walkt in that place; and she to look very intent andbeautiful upon me, as she did question. And, indeed, I saw that she tomean a lovely praise unto me, as you to perceive; and truly, I did feela little strange, as that I did be both glad and shy in the same moment.And she then to ease me of any answer; for she gat upward upon herknees, and she put her two hands to the sides of my face, and bid me tolook into her eyes and to know that she loved me with her soul and withall that did make her to be.And afterward, she kist me very gentle upon the forehead, and did bethen husht awhile, as that she to be in thought; yet oft she did lookdownward at me, and did have a beauty of love and honour within hereyes, so that they alway to shine, as she did look at me.
[PERSPECTIVE][WITCH]And presently, the Maid did sit again beside me, and slipt her two handsinto the one of mine, as did be ever my desire, and she to love that shegive me this delight, and likewise, she to have joy to herself in thislovingness.And we then again to have talk; and I did tell Mine Own somewhat of theHistory of the Olden World! and she did have dim memories, as in dreams,of the days of light; yet scarce that she could believe it of truth. Butshe to have knowledge of the Olden Love Days within her spirit, and tomind that there did be alway, as it did be, a lovely and golden lightupon the world; but she not to know truly whether this to be but theholy glamour-light that Memory doth set about a past loveliness; and tohave no remembering of the Sun; but yet to be made ready by her memoriesunto believing. And I to know of certainty; but yet even I that do tell
this My Tale, did but perceive the Days of the Light, as in a far andvague dream; and to remember it but in the chief by the glory of lostsunsets that had cast an holiness upon my heart, and of the hush ofDawns that had made ready my spirit in the Gone Ages to look quietlyunto my death.And surely you to go with me in all this thing, and to have felt withinyour own spirit that uplifted wonder that doth shake the soul with thelost Beginning and with the unknown End, when that you have looktthrough the sorrow of the Sunset, and stood silent before the QuietVoice that doth make promise in the Dawn.But, in verity, we that had near lost our Memory of the surety of thesegreat wonders, did have memory of Love; and this to be most beautifulunto my heart; for it but to show the more how that love doth liveforever, and doth make an holiness in all places; and doth giveCompanionship and Satisfying; so that to have love, is to have all, andto have escaped this Wonder is to have missed to have Lived.And I to find then that Mine Own did have no knowledge of the way thatthe World did be in that Future Age; and did lack to know that thereabode mightily above us in the everlasting night, the dead starkness ofthe world, where did be--mayhap two hundred great miles above us--snowand the eternal desolation of a lost world, that did be once the lovelyworld of the olden days, which did be now given over unto Night andSilence.
And mayhap there did wander upward there Memory, and did go companionedby Grief. But, indeed, I to delight to think that Hope and Love didbuild houses of joy about the Dead; and there to be no true death; butonly the dying of days. Yet, surely, this doth be sorrow enough unto theheart and the soul, if that they did be days when love did make amystery of light about the spirit, and the Beloved to have been anigh tomake ever a sweet wonder unto the heart.But I to cease from these thoughts; for we to face our life brave andwise, and to take both the sorrow and the joy unto our developing, andto hold up the face with courage when that Grief doth come anigh; and tosee that we grow not to bitterness, but unto sweet wholesomeness. And
there to be Joy again, and we then the better abled to have that delightinto our hearts; for how shall Joy ever to come truly again to thatheart which bitterness hath made a place for the abode of sorrow.And truly, I to cease from these thinkings also; for my story to waitupon me, and these things that I do say do be plain unto you, and tohave no need to the telling.And so did I tell Mine Own Maid of the things that I did learn from thelittle metal book; and she to be in a constant wonder and delight andwith an awe and newness upon her. And sudden, there did some oldenmemory stir within her; for she askt me, in one instant, whether that Idid remember when that the Cities did move alway unto the Westward.
But truly I had no remembering of this thing, and did look at herawhile, with somewhat of a trouble upon me; for, that there should beaught lacking in my memory of those times that we did be together uponthis world, was a fear unto me, and a vague sorrow alway, if that I didbut to let my thought go that way; though, indeed, I did ever strive towiseness, and did have knowledge that there doth be an heart-wearing anddespair and needless trouble in vain regrets; but yet these to benatural unto the spirit, if that you to know love; and do be but thecomplement of the love-joy, and mayhap to have a use unto the sweeteningof the spirit, if that they be not let to over-ride the reason.And whilst that I did look unto Mine Own, that she help me to remember,she did strive with her Memory. But in the end, did fail to come untoaught of clearness, save that she did see, as in a far dream, yet veryplain, a great metal roadway, set in two lines that went forever untothe setting Sun; and she then sudden to say that she did see in hermemory the Sun, and she to have a strange and troubled amazement uponher. And there did be Cities upon the great road; and the houses did bestrange-seeming, and did move forward eternally and at a constant speed;and behind them the Night did march forever; and they to have an evenpace with the sun, that they live ever in the light, and so to escapethe night which pursued forever, as she did tell, and a dread andterrible chill that did live in the night. And there did be cities far
[SURPRISE]forward in the morning Sunshine, that did have gone before at speed, andset the husbandry of the world, and to be finished and gone forwardagain ere that certain of the latter cities did come to that place tothe reaping; and the night to come presently to that place; but this notto be for some part of a year after that the crops were taken. But howlong this might be, she not to remember.And all this the Maid did say to me, as out of a strange dream, and I tohave set it down, and to have made it so clear to you as she to havetold it; and surely it doth be plain then that she to speak of a timewhen that the day did be grown to a monstrous length, because that theworld did turn but slow and weary.And it to be a sureness, as you shall perceive, that but to stand stillin that age of which Naani told, was to be left presently in an utternight and chill, that should last mayhap a great and weary year. And, in
[PROBLEM][SURPRISE][EMOTION][CONFLICT]verity, it doth seem that all Humanity did travel forever in thatstrange age, when that to stay was to die unprepared in the bitternight, and to go forward, was to be forever in the sun. And truly, thisdoth be so strange seeming to me, as to you.And much I questioned the Maid, and did have an hurt within my heart,and a pain of jealousy and sadness to grow in me; for surely she didspeak of some life that she did live, when that I did be elsewhere,either in Life or Unknowing. And, in verity, what man then should havetaught Mine Own to love him? And she then mayhap to have had no
[PROBLEM][CONFLICT][EMOTION][SURPRISE][DANGER]remembering of me.And truly I questioned very desperate, and the more so because that Iwas yet weak, and lacking my strength to be composed. But she neither toremember me nor any other man of that time; and to have no memories,save these bare things that she to have spoken out so strange, and whichdid come sudden unto her out of all the deepness of the years and thelost sorrows and joys and wonders of that which doth make a World ofHumans.And surely my questionings brought a distress upon Mine Own, bothbecause that she did be troubled by the way that my love did bring me tothis strange anguish, and because that she also to have pain, and asudden fear that there did be ever a time when she not to have known me,or to have permitted the arms of another.
And she did then strive that she be both wise and strong, and to givehelp unto me, and to take reason unto her own easing. And truly she toshow how that she did be all unknowing of any love in that far backwardtime; but it to be possible in reason that she to have gone to another,in natural course, the while that her heart did yearn alway in vaguetrouble unto Her Own, that her spirit did mayhap never to haveforgotten. And, truly, this doth be the way of Life, and a bitter thingand a sorrow to Joyous Love to think upon; yet I here to be set to thetellings of Truth, and to have heed to all that reason doth show to be.But Mine Own did also have us both to remember that there did be equalright to think that she had died Mine Own Maid in that life; for that itdid be not out of reason to think that she had been void-hearted untoall men, because that she had known in her spirit that she did once tomeet Her Own, and did be thereafter untuned unto all other men that everdid live. And this all to be in a mist, and we to go vainly. And of her
will, she did think that no man did ever to have possessed her, save I;yet this to be mayhaps only the prompting of her love; and she then tokiss me, and to say that there did be no surety in aught, but only thatwe did have been together before, and have borne a love so great that itdid live through Eternity; and we to be now together, and maybe all elseto be but dreams.And truly I did have a fierce hope that this be so; and the Maidlikewise so to hope, yet to be less bitter with rebellion than I, thoughin pain upon the thought; for she did be so utter and dreadful glad andin happy thankfulness that we did be now come together again in the end;and did mean that she conquer all that should be like to set a greynessupon our joy, and to be steadfast unto this end.And I afterward to be likewise in wisdom, when that I was come the moreto strength, and to mind that I suffer vainly for that which did have nosurety, as I have shown; and moreover I did have no power upon the past,either to learn aught or to mend aught; so that I did go the way of anHuman, and did shake free from these broodings, and strove untoforgetfulness; which, in truth, doth be both a Terror and aMercifulness, as doth chance. And I kist Mine Own Maid, with somewhatmore of the years within my love; and she to kiss me very sober anddear; and to desire only for my happiness, and to be utter mine own.Now, we then to eat and to drink, and the Maid to see me unto comfort inall things, and my bandages all right; and she then to make that shehave on her footgear and her hair to be bound; but indeed I bid her thatshe to dare do this thing, when that she to know how I did delight thather little feet be bare to mine eyes, and her hair most lovely upon hershoulders; and she to be very happy that I so to have an utter pleasurein her dear beauties, and did sit beside me again, and set her feet verysly where they did be anigh to my hand; for she to know that she did beMine Own, and I to be her Master, and she to have joy that she to haveto render her beauty unto me; for she did be that true complement untome that the heart of a man doth ache for eternally.
And so, presently, did end that lovely day of quiet speech andtogetherness; and the Maid did prepare me for my slumber, and she thento lie anigh to me, and her head to rest gentle beside me, so that herpretty face did be near unto my breast upon the right side; and she togive me at the first a loving and sober kiss that did be somewise to seta guard upon her tenderness, and afterward did sleep content and gentle,as that she did be in the same moment a child and a woman.And I also to come unto slumbering; yet did know vaguely how that MineOwn did rise a little upon her elbow, this time and that, and look veryloving into my face, that she have assurance of my comfort andwell-being; and once I did waken, proper, and lookt at her, and she thento kiss me gentle upon mine eyelids, and bid me to sleep; and so didcome herself unto her sweet slumber. Now when that I did come to myproper wakening, I to hear the fizzing of the water, and to know thatthe Maid did be risen a good while, and had made her toilets, as Iperceived in a moment, when that she came unto me; for her hair did bein a lovely cloud upon her shoulders, all combed and made ready againstmy waking; and she to have bathed, as I supposed, in some warm pool thatdid be among the bushes upon the island; and she now to slip herfoot-gear, that her feet be bare unto me, as I did love, and to stand amoment, and her eyes to twinkle gently. And I lookt at her with love andhonour in mine eyes, as you shall know, and she to have dancing of sweetpleasure in her heart, that I so to look upon her with holiness and withnatural love, and surely the last doth be unnatural if that it do lackthe first; but my love did burn upward out of my being, so that theflame of my spirit did light the fires of my heart, and my Reason to addcoals unto that fire that hath lived for ever, and doth be as that itshall be never quenched.
[EMOTION][CONTEXT][RELIEF][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][CLIMAX][METAPHOR][SURPRISE]And Mine Own in a moment did kneel beside me, and, truly, someways inher deep intenseness unto me; for our love did make all the world holy,and she to be both uplifted and as that she must give all the humblenessof her heart unto the greatness of my love; and this she to feel, andher deep and utter love, to make it as that she did be all a passion ofhumbleness unto me, so that in her soul I did rise in that moment uponthe wings of my love, and to seem that I did be all the world and alltime and all place and all that ever she did need unto her.And she put out her arms to me, and her eyes did shine with those tearsthat do never be shed; and lo! in a moment, she did be upon my heart,and we two to be husht together in content; for our need did be in theother. And truly, where there do be two together with love, there dothbe neither lack nor need; but eternal fulfilment.
And in verity this to be my Hope for that which doth comeAfterward--that all doth be leading unto so glad a joy as this, and thatall pain and grief and all that doth make the shaping of Life, doth bebut a process by which we be eternally perfected from living untoliving, unto each Fulfilment that doth be but the doorway unto greaterFulfilment in the Beloved.And, presently, Mine Own Maid did loose herself gentle from me, andwasht me and tended me; and very husht and tender, and somethingdown-ridded of her dear and lovely eyes.And we then to eat and to drink together, and joy so great and quiet didbe upon us, that it did be as that we had gone into an eternity of peaceand an utter content. And surely, as the thought did stir in me, it didbe of beauty that we did be both of us true unto the other, in thatlife, and I never to have kist a maid, until that I kist Mine Own, andshe to have been likewise, and to have fended all men from her, becausethat they did be Strangers unto her inwardness, and so we two to be soutter together, both in that our spirits did be knit, being each thecomplement of the other, and because that we had no secret pains ofremembered things, to set any apartness between our hearts.
And in verity, I to think back then upon my jealousies, that I havetold, and to know that Mine Own did never to have given herself lightlyto any, neither to have taken lightly; and her spirit to have been alwaymine through all the Everlasting; and mayhap this to be how all Peoplesshall come to be in the length of time, only that to us had come thegreat wonder that we did early meet; though this also to bring thatutter pain, which doth seem to slay, when that once you have known theBeloved, and to be parted.And so I to think, and did presently ponder with a great and strangepity upon they that did not yet have met the Beloved, and they mayhapnot to have kept all for the Beloved; but to have been light with thatwhich doth be the Treasure, because that Love had not come to show themthat they did unknowingly squander the strange and holy glory which dothbe the possession of they that shall come to the Beloved and say, Allthat is thine have I kept for thee. And the Beloved to know and to havepeace in the remembering. But what doth be the peculiar sorrow of theythat have gone over-lightly, when that they shall meet the Beloved; forthen shall there be a constant and inward regret, as a thorn in theheart, that they not to have observed alway that holy care of all whichdoth pertain unto love; and they nigh to moan in the spirit, _if theyhad but known, if they had but known._ Yet, in the end, of their pain,
shall they grow unto all loveliness, if that now they have truly comeupon Love, and to live with Love; for this to be the especial glory oflove, that it doth make unto all Sweetness and Greatness, and doth be afire burning all Littleness, so that did all in this world to have metThe Beloved, then did Wantonness be dead, and there to grow Gladness andCharity, dancing in the years.And there to be yet one thing upon which, mayhap, I not to have thoughtsufficient; for it doth be this, that they who did err, as I have shown,shall be the greater for their _Pain_; and let this be to cheer you, ifthat you have done foolishly, and thought not upon that day when theBeloved shall come; for Pain is but the voice of Development orDestruction; and truly you to suffer the first, if that Love doth workin you; but truly, the more that you have lacked, the greater shall beyour pain; for the more change there doth need be in you.And so would I have you now to think, and to know that the Beloved shallcome, and so shall you live in glad care of all your being, that you beable to come unto the Beloved in that day, and to say with beauty andhuman joy in your heart, even as I have said; and thus shall you missthat bitter pain. But yet, truly, you to be like to heed not this, untilthat Love doth come upon you; and I therefore to cease from this vainsetting of mine inward reasonings.
[TRANSITION]But truly, when that day be come, as I have told, you to know how thatthere went alway with me in this mine own story which I tell, thesimplicity of Truth; and how that I did be minded only that you to know,and thereby that you have gentle wisdom that you lay not up pain forthat day. Yet, if you do lack to go with me, you to need that developingwhich shall then come upon you.And so shall you perceive how my thoughts did go to and fro, as I dideat with Mine Own; and so in the last I to find that I did think veryserious; and I then to cast from me this pondering, and to have thatutter joy which did be upon us, and to seem that it did fill all thatstrange Country of Seas.And lo! after we did be done of eating and drinking, which did be but a
little time, as you shall think, the Maid did ease me to an upwardsitting, and had my back very nice to an olden stump which did be light,and she to push unto me.And Mine Own did sit then beside me, so that mine arm did come mostnatural about her; and she there to be nestled all gleeful and content,so that my heart did be doubly tender unto her. And I took the abundanceof her hair, and set it about my neck, and upon my breast, so that itdid near to cover me in the upward part; and we both then to laugh asthat we did be two children, because that Love did make us so utteryoung in the heart; and our hands to be hid under the beauty of theMaid's hair, and I to have her then that she explain just how great shedid love me; and you that go with me, do know how that this doth be adelight that is never done, neither to be set only into words.And all that day we did be wondrous happy, save once when we saw thatthere were Humpt Men upon the shore, about the Flat-Topt rock where didbe the fight; but what they did there, we not to be able to see, onlythat presently they went away; and indeed seemed to have no thought untous, neither any knowledge; and so did be gone again into the forests;and we saw no more of them, after that time. And afterward we to be lost
[WEAPON][DANGER][SURPRISE][MONSTER]utter in happiness.Now, upon the tenth day, I did be so come into health that I to walk alittle way to and fore upon the island; and Mine Own did go with me, andso I to pace a good while, and afterward to rest again.And Mine Own then to bring mine armour to me, which she had scoured verynice; but truly, the Armour did be sore broke and bent, and did bejagged inward this place and that, with the monstrous strength of theHumpt Men, when that they did strike me with the great sharp stones.And, in verity, how I should ever come again to wear this protection, Ito be in doubt. Yet, truly it had been a wondrous suit of strength that
had kept my life within me when that I had been so deadly beset; and Ito know that it to be yet like to save both our lives, if that we couldsomeway straighten it, and ease the broken jags from wounding me afresh.And I thought a time, and the Maid with me; and afterward we gat thatstump upon which I had leant, and had this to be for an anvil; and wefound then smooth stones of different sizes, and these to be forhammers; and we wrought all that day, with restings, upon the armour;and surely, we beat it into a very good shape, from the inward, and thebroken parts we beat smooth, so that they should not wound, and in theend to have mine armour fit to go upon me.And I, by now, as you shall think, to be drest part in my garments; butnot all; for there did be yet some of the bandages upon my body, so thatfor the main I did wear the cloak, that the bandages be easily come at.And all that day did be utter happy, whilst that we workt; for we to betogether.
And on the morrow, as we do say, which was the eleventh wakening uponthe island, the Maid and I to talk long and oft, whilst that we yetworked upon the armour; and we to ponder the best way that we continueto our journeying; for, indeed, I was not come to my strength; yet was Ivery earnest that we go forward early; but in the same time, I did fear,lest that we meet with aught of Danger, and I to be a-lack, because thatI was yet weak.And presently, the Maid and I both to think upon the same thing; for sheto cry out concerning the raft, and I to have the same word in my mouth.And, in verity, this to be a great thought; for then should we be ablealway to be free of the Humpt Men, and to have frequent rest when thatwe be weary, and to sleep with an ease in the mind; and, indeed, I tohope that the labour of oars should be something less than to go uponthe feet.And surely, we talkt upon this a good while, and afterward we left thearmour, and went over to the raft, and so to learn whether we shouldhave power to make it something more stable, and that we have some waythat we should put a solid matter between our bodies and any monsterthat should chance to swim under us.
And we went then together over all the little island; for I did searchfor some bush that should have a long tendril in plenty, and supple, andso to suit for binding. But, truly, there did be no such bush in all theisland; and this to put me in trouble, as you shall suppose; yet wasthere a sufficient plenty of small and upright trees, that did seem verygood for any purpose of structure.And when we had gone all about the island, and found naught that shouldbind, the Maid to say with a pretty jesting that we should cut her hair,and plait it to be for cords. And, surely, even as the words did comefrom her, they to set me upon the thing that should supply our need; forI stoopt sudden to the grass that did grow oft and plenty in this placeand that, and was so tall as my thigh, and to my head in the middle ofthe dumpings where it did sprout. And lo! it was wondrous tough.
[METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][EXPOSITION][CONTEXT][CHARACTERIZATION]And the Maid to have likewise perceived the thought, almost at thatmoment; but I to have been the first this time, and so to tease her; fortruly, we had grown that we did nigh alway to discover all things in thesame instant, as you mayhap to have seen. But I did surely be first thistime, and must kiss her, as we do kiss little ones, that they be easedin their dismays and disappointments; and she to see how I did mock her,and she to pretend to weep; and surely how could she even to pretend,when that she did not be able to keep her pretty mouth from searchingwith laughter unto mine; but must be kissed full and plenty in ourconstant joyfulness.And we cut then a good arm-load of the grasses, using the knife, and hadthose to our camp; for we did be homely now unto that place, as youshall think. And the Maid then to show me plaiting, and how that wecould work in the grass piece by piece, so that we should plait unto anylength that we to need.
And all that day we workt, and did be very happy together; but when thatwe came to the time of our slumber, the Maid had done twice and thriceso much as I; and surely she came over to me, and kist me very grave,that I should be not to fret, even as I did kiss her with gentle mockingconcerning the thought about the grass; and so did she make level withme, by this impudence and quaint sweetness.And on the next day, which did be the twelfth, I took the Diskos, and onthat day I cut down six of the trees; and alway the Maid did bring herplaiting, that she be near me; and when I had cut the six trees, she hadme to cease, lest that I risk to open any wound. And truly they to havehealed very wonderful.And afterward, we to plait all that day, and did also finish the armour;and did be content and utter happy.
[PERSPECTIVE]And on the thirteenth day, I counted the tablets, and found that we yetto have sufficient, if that we came unto the Mighty Pyramid within anyreasonable time. But I insist that I should eat no more now than did bemy usual way; and though Mine Own did beg and to coax me, and even totry whether that a naughty and loving anger should do aught to shift me,I not to alter from my deciding, which was based upon my reason and uponmy intention that Mine Own should never to go in hunger-danger, whilstthat there did be life in my body. And when that the Maid did show thisdear and pretty anger, I to take her into mine arms, and to tell her howI did reverence and love her, and that she did be all beauty unto me,and I but to love her the more, because that I did know the reason forher dear shaping of anger unto me.And she then to kiss me, and yet to beg again that she have her way inthis thing; but presently I did show her that my reasoning was sound inthis matter; though I said not that my strongest thought did be unto herown needs. And she to have to agree with me in her brain, even whilst
that her heart did ache to feed me. And truly, I to love her but themore, as you shall think.And this way shall you ever to manage a dear and sensible woman thatdoth both love you and hath reason in her; for the wise man and he thathath an heart unto bigness, doth be never hasty to command. But, indeed,I speak not now of the way that you shall go with a woman that hath thelove-foolishness upon her; for this to be a different matter, as you doknow; and a woman then to require a double wit and tenderness in thegoverning; but also to need to be commanded, mayhap with sternness; yetwith the more love.
Now, when that we wakened on our fourteenth day upon the Island, we gatto work, so soon as we had washt and eat and drunk, and Mine Own to seehow my scars did go.And I cut seven more trees that day, which made thirteen in all; andafterward I trimmed the trees very nice. And when this was done, I cuttwelve good sapling-trees, and two more very thin, that I did mean to befor paddling the raft upon the water. And Mine Own Maid did sit near mealway, and never to be ceased from her plaiting.
And whilst that the Maid did plait, and make gentle and happy talk withme, I presently to sit beside her, and had her belt-knife to my need;and therewith, when I had cut bark from a tree, I made a foot-longcross-piece of wood which I did fasten with pegs and some lashing untothe end of one of the paddle-shafts.And I took then a piece of the bark, so big, mayhap, as would cover mythigh, and shaped broad one end and thence to a point; and when I hadmade holes in the piece of bark, I lasht the broad end to thecrosspiece, and the end that did be narrowed, I lasht secure to theshaft, and likewise made holes down the length of the bark, and lasht italso thereby to the shaft, and thiswise I had a pretty good paddle,that did be about ten feet long in the clear shaft, and the head to besomewise two feet more, mayhap.And when this was done, I shaped the handle so small as might come intothe grasp of the Maid, and did jest her very loving and gentle that shegive me so great a work, because that she have her hands so little. Andtruly, she presently to stop me of my mocking; for she put her prettyhands upon my mouth, and I then to have to mumble and to laugh, and soshe to go forward again with the plaiting.
[TRANSITION][WITCH]And when I had made the one paddle, I made also the other; but somethingmore rough and heavy, and suited unto my strength; and so did be verywell pleased; for they did be made more of my Reason than of memory; yethad I used somewhat of the kind upon the quiet lakes which did be in theCountry of Silence.And we then to join in the plaiting, and thus with happy talk and ourtimes of eating, until that we did be come again to our slumber.And on the fifteenth day, when that we had gotten up and washt and eatand drank, the Maid did look unto my bandages; and did consider that Ibe healed very good, if but that I not to overstrain my body. And wethen to dance, half in play and half in victory, but gentle; andafterward she to come with me that she give me aid that we get the treesunto the water.
[ACTION][TRANSITION][CONFLICT][DANGER]And in six hours, we rolled the trees down to the shore, and did beginthen that I lash the saplings across the trees, and thiswise to holdthem secure into a raft. And the midmost tree I put something moreforward than the next; and so, until that which did be the front wasshaped somewise like to the bow of a ship. And the saplings to hold thetrees thiswise, when that I had set the lashings about every sapling andevery tree, where the saplings did go across.And all that day I worked pretty constant and steady, until that MineOwn had me to cease awhile, lest that I bend overmuch, and so to putstrain upon my scars. And I to be reasonable; but yet to go forward
[ACTION][EMOTION][TRANSITION]again with the work; only that I did rest now, this time and that; andso did all to prosper.And on the morrow, which did be the sixteenth day upon the island, Imade an end of lashing the saplings across the raft; and I set up also,two rests for the paddles, so that we might row if we stood upon theraft; and afterward, being ready, we gat together our gear, and set allupon the raft.And I put the pole that the Maid had used, also upon the raft, andloosed the straps from that first raft, and had the straps for ourrequirement, as heretofore. And mine armour we made safe on the raft;but the Diskos I had to my hip, as ever; and so did we be ready to leavethat little island of refuge, where we had been so near to sorrow, butyet had come utterly upon joy.
And surely, Mine Own did take me by the arm, and she to stand a little,and to look with me unto that bed of soft herbage where she had laid me,when that I did be so nigh unto death; and she then to kiss me verysweet and loving and gentle, and all a-tremble with the tears and lovethat did stir in her; and I to set mine arms about her in love; and sowe to turn and to put off then in the Raft.XVPAST THE HOUSE OF SILENCENow it was in the tenth hour of that day, that we put off in the raft;and surely we found the paddles to go very easy and with somewhat ofbalance in the rests which I had set up, as you do mind; and the raft togo forward with not overmuch of labour; so that we stood, the Maid tothe fore paddle and I did be to the hinder one, and we pusht very steadyupon the paddles, and had the raft presently to a speed something lessthan we should walk over the rough way of the Land.And about the twelfth hour we stopt and eat and drunk, and went on againwith our easy labouring; and truly, when that we gat set to themovement, we scarce to wot that we did aught more than rock somethingfore and back upon our feet; and so the hours to pass, and we to have aconstant gentle speech one with the other, and the Maid oft to look backunto me with love, and to set her lips that she tempt me; but yet toshake her head most dear, when that I would leave my paddle, that I goforward unto her.And when that the eighteenth hour of that day was come, we to drawinward our paddles, and the Maid set the cloak very nice to be our bed,and afterward we eat and drank, and so presently to our slumber, and didhave sleep, very sound and happy, all in a moment, as it to seem.
[EMOTION]And eight good hours after, we did waken both of us, together; and lo!we scarce to mind where we did be for a little moment; but afterward toknow and to perceive that we did be safe and naught to have come untous in our sleep. And surely we laught each in the face of the other; forwe did be so joyous to be wakened each unto the knowledge of the other.And after that we had kist, we washt somewhat in the water of the sea,and so to our food. And when we had eat and drunk, we made again to the
[RELIEF][METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][CHARACTERIZATION][EMOTION][TRANSITION]paddling; and went forward thus along the coast very peaceful andcontent all that day.Now, in all, that voyaging did talk four good days of four-and-twentyhours each, for we made no great haste or labour, but went easy, that Ihave time to gather my strength. And naught to happen in all that time,save that once we did see a great beast to come upward lumbersome out ofthe sea on to the shore, and there did eat and browse upon the herbagein that part; or so it did seem to us; though, truly, we did be over faroff to have surety.And this beast not to put us into any horror; but only to make us gladthat we be afar off from it; and by this saying, I to mean that it didseem unto us a natural thing; and nowise to have an odour of aughtmonstrous to trouble our spirits. And this way did be all the creatures
of that Country; and truly I do think the Early World did be somewiselike to it; and this to seem to make true that olden saying that extremethings do meet, as doth be over-apparent; for thus doth it be somewiseto our knowings, as you shall perceive by your Reasonings Upon OldenDays, and by the showings of this Mine Own Story, for that Deep World tohave put forth natural creatures that did be even as might be those thatdid live in the Beginning; though I to make no point of this, but onlythat it doth occur to my thought; and all to seem that it did be bred ofCircumstance and Condition; yet this to have no saying whether thatthere to be a spiritual-force something deeper than the Circumstance;for this to be outside of any surety, but not offensive unto my Reason.But this thinking also neither to offend me, that although much--andmayhap all--doth be modified and shapen diverse ways by the Circumstanceand the Condition, yet doth there be an inward force that doth bepeculiar each unto each; though, mayhap, to be mixt and made monstrousor diverse by foul or foolish breeding--as you to have knowledge of inthe bodies of those dread Monsters that did be both Man and Beast. Yet,also, I here to say that maybe all diverse breeding not to be monstrous;but this to be beside my point. For I to be now set to tell, as I havetold, that it not to offend me to suppose that there to be this inwardforce peculiar to each shaping of all bodies that do hold that wondrousquality of Life. And if that you ask me that I give example to make
[PERSPECTIVE]clear my thought, I to say that it doth be reasonable to suppose thatthe Force or Spirit of the Human doth be peculiar to the Human, whetherthat it to be a Cause of Life, or the Result of that which hath beenevolved out of a Condition. And whether it to be the one way or theother, you to know that where this Force or Spirit be found untainted,there is man; and I to be not opposed to think that Man doth be constantalway in matters of fundament, and neither to have been ever trulydifferent; though something modified in the body and surely, in thefirst, all undeveloped in the lovely things of the spirit, because thatthere to be no call to these. Yet, presently, they likewise to come, andto act upon the flesh with refinings; and likewise, mayhap, there to besome act of the flesh upon the spirit; and so to the state of this Ageof this our day, and to that far Age of which I do tell. But developmentnever to make the Human other than the Human; for the development tohave limits peculiar to the Human. And surely, it doth appeal to me,
[PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][CONTEXT]that the development of Man doth lie between two points, that be notwondrous wide apart; and Man to have power that he arrive very speedyfrom one unto the other, and likewise that he go back so quick, or eventhe more hasty. Yet, even did it be ever proved that Man once to be afish, I to have no cause to abate the first part of mine argument; butto have the more need of the thought, that I gain power to accept theFact; for I still then to have no occasion that I think Man to have beentruly a Fish, or aught truly different from a Man; but only that he didbe once Modified physically to his need, and to be still possessed ofthe Man-Spirit, though all lackt of development. Yet, truly, I to beless offend in my Reason, if that it be shown that Man did be eversomewise in his present shape, though mayhap so brutish as the HumptMen; but yet I do be ready to consider all matters, and do build noWalls about my Reason. Yet, neither I to have an over-ready acceptanceof aught, but to need that my Reason shall approve.
And you to perceive, surely, that I here not to speak of that which maybe Afterward, when that all This, our life, be done. For who shall sayhow much or how little we then to go forward unto loveliness; and I atthis point to tell you that I do have a wondrous hope of beauteousthings, and of sweet and mighty Uplifting and Furtherance unto that GladWorld which we have beheld the shores of, when that we had stood inholiness with the Beloved.And, in verity, I now once more to my story; and to be glad that I amdone at this small setting forth of a matter which did need words,because that it did have root in this Mine Own Story, and to be grown ofit and from it.Now, there did be one other thing of note, beside the Sea Beast, whilstthat we did be upon the Seas; and this did be the strangeness of a greatFire-Hill which did stand in the sea, and we to pass very nigh unto it.
And surely the sea did boil about it, yet not in all places; and theredid be a score great jets that did go upward a monstrous way, and didroar very plain to us across the sea between; and there did come strangegruntings from the sea about the base of the Fire-Hill, and these I toconceive to be made by the upbursting of gases in this place and that;and surely, it all to make us to know of the great energy that did bewakeful in that deep Country; and we yet to stare backward upon thatHill of Fire and Force, for a great while after that we had come past.Now, beyond this, there to be naught, except that we had a certain careas we did come to that place where the Great Sea did be broke to smallerseas; but all to be knit with passages of water, which let us throughupon our way.And surely, I did show Mine Own Maid those two places where I did sleepwhen first I was come into that Country; and she to be sweet ininterest, and alway to have somewhat that she would learn of this andthat.And so, when that we did be four good days upon the water, as I havetold, we to come to the land, upon a flat place of the shore, where theCountry did slope upward unto the mouth of the First Gorge, of which youdo mind. And this to be in the tenth hour of that day; and we likewise
[EMOTION]to have begun that voyage in the tenth hour, as you do remember; andsurely it to have been a sweet and peaceful water-journey; and I to havebeen happy, if that all that did be yet before us, to hold so much ofpleasantness and safe goings. But, indeed, there to be much danger yetto come, as you do know; and we to have our hearts set in courage, andto go forward to conquer; for surely, if that we to conquer, and to comesafe into our Mighty Home, there to be then that we have all our livestogether in loveliness; and this to be truly a worthy prize and a gloryof the heart, to end and to repay our Stress.And surely, the Maid and I did presently strand the raft, so well as wemight, and did then to wonder whether any should evermore to behold itthrough all Eternity. And we lookt a little, each at the other; and theMaid then to cut free a small piece of the wood of the raft, to be foran after remembrance.
And so we to have our gear upon the shore; and the Maid then to give meaid that I get once more into mine armour; and so I presently to havethe Scrip and the Pouch again to my back, and the Diskos in my hand, andall in readiness, and the Maid with her bundle (that was now grownsmall), and her belt about her body, that she have her knife unto herhand.And surely, the Maid then to kneel and to kiss the raft; for memoriesdid gather upon her; and she there to have one more breaking from allthat did be the first part of her life; and you to give yourunderstanding, and so to have a quiet sympathy, and to perceive that herheart did be like that it should stir with a strange trouble ofsorrowing in that moment.And surely I stoopt then, very gentle and loving, and had Mine Own toher feet; and I led her from the raft, and she to need that she be nearme; and so we to go forward, and to make upward unto the dark mouth ofthe Great Gorge.And there to be some miles unto our right, that grim and utter hugeMountain, whereon afar upward in the monstrousness of the night did beperched those four fire-hills of which I have told. And below them,
[SURPRISE]there to go upward the great hills of ash, that had been cast downthroughout Eternity. And this thing had the Maid lookt upon for a greattime, and did be never done of her wonder; neither I, nor any human thatever should have sight of so great a wonder.And so we to have come presently upward into the high mouth of theGorge, and did go onward then into the gloom, a little space, until thatwe were come to the place where the Gorge did bend sharp unto the left,into darkness.And lo! we made pause here, and turned again unto the Country of Seas,
that we have a last outward look over all that Deep and living Land,that did be hid so far downward in the everlasting night of the world.And, in verity, it did be a solemn thing to know that we, mayhap, to bethe last of the olden Humans that should ever to look upon that Country;and I to wonder, in that moment, whether that the Humpt Men should everto develop, in some far eternity, unto the full sweetness of the spiritof Humanity which I did think to be inward of them. And this to be bothan odd and a natural thought to have then, as I do see. But at thattime, I only to think it, and not to wot or to trouble whether that itdid be odd or otherwise. And I to think that Country did be somewise as
the Olden Time renewed; but truly we to look upon early things with neweyes.And we yet to look awhile, and to be husht, and to hark in those lastmoments unto the far mutter of the Great Fire-Mountains, and theFire-Hills, and the noise of life which did go over that Land; and weeven then to be but a few short pacings off from the silence of theGreat Gorge, which should lead us presently toward the EternalStrangeness which did be in the Night Land. And the Maid did hold minearm very close, as we lookt our last into the red light of that Deep andHid Country of the World, where, in verity, we had come so utter nigh toour Death.And presently, I turned, and the Maid slipt her hand into mine, and thetears did go silent down her face, because of all that did be prest uponher heart; but yet not to be all of sorrow, for there to be both sorrowand happiness, and also there did be somewhat of vague emotion that shenever more to look upon that dear island where she had nurst her managain unto life and well-being; and she to be in mind of all thoseplaces where she to know that in after-life her memory to wander; andshe to have oft-told tales, mayhap, unto her children, of that Countrythat they never to see; but only to be for a wonder to them for ever.
[GORE]And we past then round the Mighty Corner-place of the Gorge, and wentforward, somewhat stumbling, into the gloom.Now we went sixteen hours very steady, and with naught save the greatdarkness to trouble us; and we by this to have been twenty and six hourssince last that we had sleep; and surely this did be a foolishness,because that I to need that I come into my full strength, ere we reachthe Night Land; and it to be a folly that I should over-tire myself; andthe Maid to have said so much.And, indeed, then, we came to a safe place for our slumber, and whilstthat we eat and drunk, we made count from my notings of the outward way,and so did decide that we go no more than sixteen hours' journey eachday through the Gorge, and to sleep alway for eight good hours. And thiswe to do, both then, and until that we did be come out of the GreatGorge, which did take us in all, so much as five days thiswise.
[EMOTION]And surely, when that we were come into the light places of the Gorge,we to be more cheered, as you shall suppose; yet oft did we be halfsmothered with the horrid gases that came upward in this part and that,as you do mind.And my strength did grow constant, as we journeyed; yet would the Maidnever suffer that I carry her; but went alway very light and clever, andwas grown, in truth, set unto this constant wander.And at this place and that, I to make pause that I show Mine Own thoseplaces where I did slumber, and she alway to need that she come unto thevery part, and that she stand for a little moment where I did lie solonesome, as I went outward unto that despairful searching. And alwayshe then to be utter tender with me, and to be something lacking ofspeech, because of the calling of her heart.
[EMOTION][PROBLEM][GORE]And surely, Mine Own did be alway now to ask me when that we should become unto the Night Land; and to require how far it should be, and to betaken with a growing of excitement, very dear and natural; and, inverity, I to be almost so much so as she; and to wonder what she tothink of the Mighty Redoubt, and of all that strange and monstrous Land.And, above all these, I to be shaken unto my very heart, that I have theMaid speedy unto safety; lest, after all, even though we to have come sofar, there somewhat to happen of woe. And all this did make it a hardthing that we not to begin to race, and to exceed the hours that we didset; but truly we had wisdom in this matter, and slumbered alway afterthe sixteenth hour.And we never to see aught of life in all that great and desolate Gorge;for there did be only the gas-burnings, and the boulders and the starkrocks, and oft the rank smellings of the gases. And alway an utter and
[EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][SURPRISE][METAPHOR][CONTEXT][CHARACTER]everlasting quiet; save when some lonesome gas-fire did oddly to moanor to whistle, and the whistling to sound very dree across the greatwaste of the Gorge, and likewise the moaning to be but a thing to makethe loneliness to be felt in the heart; and the Maid to feel thus withme.And alway, as I did know, she to think in her heart that I did comethrough that place alone to make a searching for her into the unknownlands of the world; and surely, I did be but a natural man if that I wassomething happy in my heart that Mine Own so to ponder and to remember;for thereby did her love seem ever to grow. And likewise, a man doth beglad in his spirit and natural pride, that his Maid to know that he hathdone wholesomely of his best for her need. And you but to think upon thelove-days, and to hear the echoes of those dear proud thoughts that didso to swell in you; and doth not all to go so strangely with familiarpain in the old way?
[SURPRISE]Now it was upon the fifth day, in about the seventh hour, that I heardoddwhiles a sound in this place and that of the Gorge, as that the rocksmade husht and strange sounds at us. And I to have the Maid instant verynigh to me, and the Diskos to my hand, and we then to go onward with agreat caution.And thrice we did pass places where gas-fires did burn and dance, andmade oft a low moaning, and somewhiles a little whistling; and the othersounds yet to come oddly from the rocks, in this place and that, verystrange and unthought of, yet to be something familiar.And sudden, it did come to me that there to be a far-away noise in thesesounds; though they to seem to come from this place and that almost tomine elbow, as you should say. And lo! I knew then that I harked unto
[SURPRISE][METAPHOR][PROBLEM][CONTEXT][CHARACTERIZATION][FLASHBACK]little echoings, that did be caught by the near rocks, and to come fromsome far and mighty sound. And this should be surely the monstrouspiping of the Great Gas Fountain, that you do well mind. And, in verity,I told Mine Own in a moment; and she to be all eager with me, becausethat this did be both a wondrous thing, and to be also a landmark toshow that we did be nigh to come out of the Gorge, and our journey tocome the more near unto an ending.And surely we lookt ahead very earnest; and there to be so many strangeand leaping fires to our front, that we not to be very sure which did bethe far and monstrous dance of the Great Gas Fountain; for truly it tobe yet so distant that the near gas-fires did make more upon the eye upall of a weary length of the Gorge, than did the great dance of thefar-off fire, that was now so small, by the distance.
[TRANSITION][GORE]And presently, when that we were gone onward something more, we to seethat there went a lightening and a darkening afar along the Gorge, sothat the background of the night was made to lose somewhat of theintensity of its darkness, as with constant shudders of light; and thisto be surely the far away dance of the flame of the Great Gas Fountain.And we then to watch alway as we journeyed, and to see how that thevague shudderings of light did grow in the distance of the night, anddid merge and become known presently in a strange uplifting and fallingof a far away blue flame.And the sound now to come more steady, and to grow in a long while into amonstrous piping, very great and wonderful, and having a constant changein the note.And we to come past the last of the lesser fires, and to be in that partof the Gorge which did be fireless, save for the great upward dance ofthe Gas Fountain, which did now to be grown huge and plain-seen, and didmake a quaking light over all the Gorge.
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][PROBLEM][EXPOSITION][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK][GORE]And so in the end, we to be come very nigh to the dance of the monstrousflame; and did be half stunned by the noise, which did be now an utter andfurious roaring, as you shall remember; and the Maid and I did stand asbut two lonesome strangers in the mouth-part of that deep and desolateGorge, and did stare voiceless unto the great flaw; and mine arm did beabout the Maid, and she to stand very nigh to me; and neither to speak;and surely, how should we anywise; for the noise did be so huge.And after that we had stared a great while, we turned that we look eachat the other; and we kist very sober, there in the light from themonster flame. And afterward, we did stare again at the Flame, and soonturned, and lookt all ways, and did marvel to see the great throw of thelight go blue and spreading and strange unto great distances.And a while we did be watching the way that the far-off side of theGorge did come plain to sight, when that the Flame did leap; and, truly,that did seem a far and lonesome Place, as that a lost and forgot worldof desolate mountains did be there.
[MONSTER]And lo! we now to look that we should see somewhat of the way that ourjourney to go; and surely naught to be clear shown save when the Flamedid rise oddwhiles to a monstrous height; and this to be because of thehuge rocks that did stand about the Flame. Yet something I was abled toshow the Maid of the bottom part of the Mighty and Utter Monster Slopethat did be the last way of our journey, ere we were come to the NightLand.And we then to go onward for about a good mile, that we be not sodeafened by the noise of the Gas Fountain; and it did be now beyond theseventeenth hour; so that we eat and drunk, and made our rest in asecure place among the great boulders.
[MONSTER]And lo! when that we waked, we eat and drunk again, and did be somethingsilent, as we to gaze at the Flame dancing monstrous, and lonesome andall set about with the stark and mighty Rocks, which did be like untogiants of silence that did watch forever. And presently, we had our gearupon us, and we went forward toward the utter dark of the Mighty Slope;and we began that huge climb, that should last through days in aneternity of night.And oft in the first hours did we turn about from our blind stumblings,and gaze downward out of the long height, unto the loom of the Flame,that did shudder far below in the night, and made a quaking light inthat far darkness. And so did we leave it to dance forever through
[TRANSITION][HORROR]Eternity in that deep and lost place of the world; and we bent all ourwill and our strength unto the climb.And this way went we stumbling for sixteen great hours; and by that timehad come to a pace proper for that task, and to be something numbed, andseeming grown unreal, because of the affecting of the Darkness.And lo! for eight days then did we go upward forever through that mostdreadful night. And after the first day, we crept alway upon our hands
[EMOTION][DANGER][CONFLICT]and our knees, and I to go in the front, and had the Diskos ready uponmy hip. And I took two of the straps from the pouch and the scrip, andso had a certain length; and I set them from the waist-belt of the Maidunto mine own belt, and so did know ever that she came close after me.And we made journeys sixteen hours long, and did eat and drink at thesixth and the twelfth hours, and likewise we eat and drank ere we slept,and again upon our wakings; and our slumber-time to go alway somewheresabout eight good hours; for thus did I be heedful that we have all ourstrength for that dreadness of the journey, which did be yet before us,across the fear and horrid terror of the Night Land.And oft, at this time and that, I was utter sickened and a-wearied ofreaching forward and upward forever, and making blind fumblings that Ifind a way about great boulders and the rocks and holes that did be inour path in the dark; for it to seem that we went lost from all life andknowing, in a blackness that should be never slackened from about us.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][FLASHBACK][METAPHOR]And I, these times, to make a pause, and to call softly unto Mine Ownthat she creep up nigh unto me; and I then to take her into mine arms,out of the utter blackness of that night. And so to give and to havecomfort.And surely, Mine Own did whisper once unto me, that she did be stunnedwith love and wonder in the heart; for she to never cease to know that Idid adventure through this great night, that I find her. And this thingdid make me very warm in my heart, as you shall think; but yet I to stopher speech with a gentle kiss; and she then to know that she be dumbconcerning her thought in this matter; yet she never to cease fromremembering it, and did be the more stirred with the trouble of herlovely secret worship; for, in verity, she to have me to be for herhero; and this to make me in the same moment both something shamed andgreatly proud.
[MONSTER]And so we to be together, and after such pause, to go forward again,with a new courage.And surely it did be a great comfort to me to think that, because we togo upward and not downward, we be not like to fall over any hid cliff inthe night; for I to have now some little knowing of the Slope, from mineoutward journey; yet to remember upon that monstrous pit that I then toescape, and so to go with care.And, indeed, upon the second day, I had Mine Own to creep more nigh withme, and I then to have but one strap between us, and the other I set astone into, and did cast the stone alway before us, as upon the outwardway. And you to mind you of this, if you but to think a little minute.
[CONTEXT][EMOTION][EXPOSITION][PERSPECTIVE][CHARACTERIZATION][TRANSITION][SETTING][PLOT][METAPHOR][CHARACTER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][FLASHBACK]And oft in those weary days in the Darkness, did I make gentlewhisperings through the blackness, unto Mine Own, that I give cheer untoher; and she alway to answer, very sweet and loving; yet ever husht, asI did be; and in verity, it did be as that we could not set our voicesloud upon that Mighty Slope, lest some enchantment come upon us, as itmight be said. And, indeed, each time that I cast the stone, the noiseof the stone to make a little trouble and dismalness in mine ears; forall did be so quiet and desolate and lost in night, that it to make usto need to be likewise so quiet, and to desire that we might go upwardso silent as shadows.Now, surely, I must tell here how that the Maid to have alway at wakingthat same awaredness that I did have upon the Outward Way, that somewhatdid be nigh to us, and to seem to have been concerned with our waking;and I likewise to have also the same knowledge, as before. And oft as wedid go, I to feel that somewhat did go near to us. And this to put
something of a fear upon me, because that I was ever anxious for MineOwn; and I to have her to be alway the more nigh to me, and did set thestrap from her to me, even when that she slept; so that she not to betouched, and I to lack to know. Yet she to have no fear concerning thisthing; but to feel in her spirit that it did be a force that had no evilintent unto us; but more, neither she nor I to know; and I, in truth, tocome in the end used to it; save that I did be, as I have told, anxiousin all that did concern the life and well-being of My Beloved.And so did we go onward through those eight days.And it soon to be grown cold, so that we both to need the cloak over usin our slumbers; but in the journey-hours to need naught; for theupward-going did surely heat us very well.
And there also to be come presently a change and a seeming of thinnessinto the air; and the Maid to remark upon this, and likewise that thewater-powder now to be that it not to fizz so plentiful.And we went upward, as it did seem forever, and journeyed very hushtand steadfast; and likewise did halt at set times, that we eat anddrink; and did alway sit then very close and quiet and in love. And soalway to go never beyond sixteen hours' journey each day, and veryweariful even so much; for it to be a sore and constant labour ofclimbing.And I to learn the hour alway, by a little shining of the Diskos upon mytime-dial, which I have told did be somewise as the watch of this ourpresent Age. Yet, truly, I also to learn that I made somewhat of a
[GHOST]constant number of forward-throws of the stone in an hour; and the Maidto be the first to discover this, as she did creep behind me and harkedsteadfast and quiet unto the clatter of the stone, each time that I castit. And she sometimes to call low to me that it now to be this time orthat time; and I to look at my Dial, as I have told, and oft to findthat she did be curiously right.Yet otherwhiles, we to have no thought to count; but made a constanthusht talk one to the other; and did grow odd times, that it did seem tous that we did be two spirits there in an Everlasting Darkness, that hadquiet speech one to the other, and to be seeming gone from our bodies.And we then to need that we look each at the other, that we know trulythat we yet to live and to be indeed with the Beloved. And I then alway
[EMOTION]to make the Diskos spin a little, yet something more than when I shouldsee the hour; and, in verity, our faces then to show pale and strangeseeming in that luminous glowing of the great weapon in the Darkness;and we to look very eager and an hungered of love, each at the other;and so to need that we be held loving by the Beloved, and so to havecomfort and assuredness; and afterward to have peace to go onward again.And it did be one such time as these, that Mine Own to give me a lovename she had called me in those olden days of _this_ Age; and whichsurely I had not heard since Mirdath died. And, in verity, you to havedear understanding with me, how that I then to be all troubled withvague troubles and ghostly love-aches in the heart; and likewise, I didbe all set about in a moment by the olden enchantment and speechlessglamour that did be so long hid and lost in the Spaces of Memory, wheresurely the spirit doth wander such oddwhiles, husht unto a dumbtearlessness and to know in the same moment both Agony and the voicelessGlory and lost Delight of the Hath-Been; so that it doth be as that youwandered in the spirit between the sorrowful pain of the Sunset, and thePromise of the Dawn which doth be builded upon the Need and Hope of thesoul, and doth also to have an essence of pain within it; because thatthese do be knit with Longing which doth be the essential pang ofMemory. And so, mayhap, you to have gone with me; for you to have alsostrange thoughts that do come out of the years, and do hurt the heart,even whilst that the heart doth hunger of that which doth so pain. Yet,
[CHARACTER]truly, Mine Own did be now with me, as you do know so that I had joyall about my heart; yet did all the years of my lost delights and of mypain, be in the spaces of my memory, and Mine Own now to have stirredall; so that no words that did be ever shaped of man should help me tohave ease in speech.And Mine Own Maid to know how it did be with me; and she to have saidthe thing, scarce wotting, even as her spirit did set it through herlips; and she before then to have forgot so utter as I; and now she tobe stirred likewise with me; so that, in verity, we to hold hands in thegreat Darkness upon the Slope, and to wait till the pain and strangetrouble did go somewhat from our hearts; and we to have power again toknow truly that we did be again together in sweet verity, after a mightyEternity.And thus did we go, and even in that strange Night to have aneverlasting coming together; so that surely our two spirits to be nighmade one, somewise; and this to be that sweet and holy thing which I doname Love; and it to be my glory and Astonishment that Love hath comeunto me. And with you that have love, I am as a Brother in holy delight;but with all that have not known Love, or to have missed Love, I am aMourner, and my heart to pray that they to know this Wonder, ere theydie; for else shall they die so green and bitter as they be born, and tohave grown nowise unto Ripeness, which doth be Charity--the end of lifeand the Crown of Humanity.
[TRANSITION]And surely I to go forward again now with my telling. And you to knowthat on the eighth day upon the Slope, about the end of the ninth hour,there to be an upward seeming of light, afar before us in the Darkness,and did show as a dull and vague sheen above us in the night. And truly,I to know that we did be come at last a-near unto the Night Land.And we went upward then very eager through the dark; and the dim shinedid grow, ever; so that we soon to see it very plain, as a looming oflight afar upward. And we ever to climb and to go onward. And lo! in the
[EMOTION][EXPOSITION][FLASHBACK][TRANSITION][SETTING][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE][SURPRISE][CHARACTERIZATION]fourteenth hour of that day, we came up slowly out of the Night upon theSlope, and stood at the ending of that strange road Where The SilentOnes Walk.And surely it did be as that I was come home, and to have set my feetagain upon familiar Lands; and this to bring to you how far off I didseem to have gone; and now to be come again to a Known Place.And we went upward upon the Road, until that we did truly have topt theSlope, and at last to look out over all the wonder and mystery of thatLand. And I never to be rid of the utter gladness of knowing that I wascome there again, after so strange a journey, and that Mine Own had Ibrought with me, out of all the unknown world. Yet, truly, I also never
[EMOTION]to have forgetting that this familiar Land of Strangeness did be thelast test and the greatest dreadfulness of our journey; and anxiousnessdid hang upon me; for I now to have to take the preciousness of Mine Ownamong and beyond all that Danger of Horrid Forces and of MonstrousThings and Beast Men, and the like.And truly, I did be like to trouble.And, in verity, I did stare with a fierce eagerness unto the far-offplace in the middle part of the Night Land, where did be the MightyPyramid; and surely it there to shine in the midst of the land, and didbe mine Home, where never had I dared hope I should return. And I setmine arm very swift and eager about the Maid, and pointed, so that shesee quickly the wonder and safe Mightiness of that which did be ourRefuge for all our life to come, if but that we to win unto it. And the
[EMOTION]Maid to look with a great and earnest soberness and a lovely gladnessand utter soul and heart interest, unto that Place that bare me, andwhere I to have come from, and now to take her.And long and long she lookt; and sudden came round unto me, and set herarms quick about my neck, and burst unto a strange and happy weeping.And I to hold her gentle to me, and let her cry very natural, until thatshe was something unpent.And lo! when that she was eased, she to stand close beside me, and to
[DANGER][EMOTION][HAUNTED HOUSE]look again unto the Mighty Pyramid; and afterward, as she to steady, sheto ask an hundred questions, so utter eager and so to thrill with joyand excitement, as that she did be a glad child. And an hundredquestions I answered, and showed her new things and Wonders uncounted.And of all strangeness that she then to see, there did none so to shakeher in the spirit with terror as did that dreadful and Horrid House,which did be the House of Silence. And it was as that her very being didknow and be repulsed of some Horror that did concern and be in thatHouse; so that she to want to hide in the bushes that did be anigh tothe Road; and truly, I to think this wise, and to remember and to beware suddenly that we did be indeed come now into the Power ofMonstrosity which did be utter and forever abroad in that Land.
And surely, we went then in among the bushes that did grow clumpt uponthe side of the Road, as you to remember; and afterward, I calmed thisnew fear that had come so quick upon Mine Own; and she then to peerforth with me from the bushes, and to have renewed sight over the Land.And the House of Silence to stand upon that low hill of which you doknow; and did not be a very great way off, somewise toward the right.Yet, as you shall have remembering, it did take me some long and bitterhours upon mine outward way, ere I did be come from under the shadow ofit, as we do say, unto the top-part of the Mighty Slope.But this to have been in the main, because of the utter care that I didneed to bring me safe past the House; for I to have gone long and wearyupon my hands and knees among the bushes, as you remember; and oft topause, and to be so still as Death, lest that the Power of the House tohave become aware of my passing. And truly, we to need again so utter a
[EMOTION]care, when that we make to go past, unto our Mighty Home; and this to beheavy upon my heart, and I to be in the same moment anxious that we havehaste to the trial, and yet very willing, if it might be, that we notmake it forever.And, indeed, after that we had peered a good while from the bushes, I toconsider that we do well to eat now, and afterward to have a safe placefor our slumber, so that we go fresh to the horrid dangers anddreadfulness that did be before us upon our way.And we then to look about, and soon to find a great boulder that did beset with the bushes. And we made our place for sleep against theboulder, and the bushes went all around, so that we did be complete hid.
[EMOTION]And, in verity, we to be very cold, as we had been those two past days,whilst that we made toward the top of the Mighty Slope. And now we tohave the full chill of the Night Land, and did be very glad to have thecloak, so that we eat and drank whilst that we sat together, and thecloak round us. And afterward, the Maid set the cloak about us for oursleep; and we then to kiss very sober, and I with anxiousness in theheart; but she with less, because she to have rest in me.And so we lay down to our sleep, and the Diskos ready in my hand; and myspirit wakeful against any terror that should come anigh to us in ourslumber; and the Maid I warned to be likewise wary.
[EMOTION]And surely we slept and waked, and there had gone eight good hours, andnaught was come anigh to us to harm us. And we eat and drank, and didhark oft, and lookt out from among the bushes; but there did be naughtabroad to set dread upon our spirits; and so we did be more content, andwell rest and a-ready for the further journeying.Now I had the Maid to wear the cloak, because of the chill of the Land;but she in the first to refuse, save I also to have it in my turn; buttruly, I did feel that it should smother me, and that I need all myfreedom of my body, lest there come any thing sudden upon us; and allthis I showed Mine Own, and also that we should have weary work, and tocreep much, so that I should be warm by my labour of going, and shelikewise, mayhap. And she then to consent, because she saw that I did beearnest and to burn with anxiousness; yet had me to promise that I takethe cloak, if that the chill of the Land gat me anywise bitter.
Now we made a pause, when that we have our gear upon us, and we looktwell out over the Land; and surely alway our eyes did gaze in the endingupon that far Wonder of Light and Safeness, which did be the MightyPyramid; and I to be never ceased from telling Mine Own this thing andthat thing concerning the Great Refuge; and she to be constant stunnedunto silence and delight of wonder, and anon shaken unto a multitude ofquestionings, so that truly we did be as that we never to have donemaking known one unto the other.Now, as you have knowledge, the House of Silence stood upon a low hill,and the Road did bend about the bottom of the hill; and this way did Icome, when that I was on mine outward way.Yet now there to be a new plan of journeying come into my mind; for, asyou do remember, I did take somewise of eleven great days from thePyramid unto the top-part of the Mighty Slope, because that I had gonediversely and round about to the North-West of the Plain of Blue Fire.And surely, as now I lookt, it did seem that we should try a shortpassage, and thereby be come free out of all danger in but a space offour or five days, if only we to succeed. And I stood a good while very
[DANGER]husht and anxious, and did consider this new way, and did presentlypoint it out to the Maid, how that we saw the Mighty Redoubt straight tothe back of the low hill where stood the House of Silence, and mayhap wemight chance to find a safe going that way, and that I did ponderthatwise. For, indeed, as you do know, we must go _nigh_ past the House,even did we return by the long journeying, and this to be because thatthe bushes did make a cover only near to the Road, and all to be acountry of bare rock beyond the bushes on that side of the Road, whichdid be to the North and West.Now, presently, I had formed my intention regarding our way, and toldall to Mine Own, and how that we to have alway an utter caution; and thedanger I made so plain to her as I did know it, and she then to bewarein her heart the need there to be of care and wiseness forever, as wedid go. And we then to make forward into the Night Land, and to be gonefrom the top-part of that great deep, in which there to be hid strangelands, as you do know. And surely, it to be like that none should ever
to go that way again for an eternity, or maybe forever.And so went we forward, with a new caution.And we came out from among the bushes upon the North-West of the Road,and crost unto the Eastward side; and here the bushes to grow veryplentiful, so that I led on with a cheerfulness of hope within my heart.And alway I went so far to the South-East as the bushes would give ustheir cover, and this way I made that we should scarce to pass within agreat mile of the dread and horrid House; though, in verity, this to bemost dreadful close.
[DANGER][PROBLEM]And we walked then for six hours, and went sometimes creeping, and oftstoopt, and ever with a great caution.And in the sixth hour we made a rest, and eat and drank, and afterwardwent forward again.And in the tenth hour were we come something nigh unto the House; fortruly, we to be off from the Road Where The Silent Ones Walk, and so togo more straightly, and alway to save distance. And we kept so faroutward from the House as we might; but could pass it not more than agreat mile off, because that the bushes did have their margin near uponour left, as we went; and there to be barenness of rock beyond; andfire-holes in this part and that amid the starkness of the rocky spaces,that should be like to show us very plain, if that we came outward fromthe bushes.
[HAUNTED HOUSE]And moreover, there went upward into the everlasting night one of thoseTowers of Silence, which did be in this part and that part of the land,and were thought to hold Strange Watchers. And the Tower stood great andmonstrous afar off in the midst of the naked rocks, showing very greyand dim, save when the flare of some great fire did beat upward in theLand, and sent huge and monstrous lights upon it. And we to have needalway now to remember this Tower, and to keep the more so to thesheltered hiding of the bushes. Yet, in verity, we to have littlethought of aught, save of the grim and threatening terror andmonstrousness which did stand forever upon that low hill, and did be theHouse of Silence.
[SURPRISE][HAUNTED HOUSE]And in the eleventh hour, we did go creeping from bush unto bush, anddid be as shadows that went in the mixt greyness and odd shinings ofthat Land. And the grim and dreadful House did be now unto our right,and did loom huge and utter silent above us in the night. And the lightsof the House did shine steadfast and deathless with a noiseless shining,as that they shone out of the quiet of some drear and unnaturalEternity. And there did a seeming of Unholiness to brood in the air, anda sense of all and deathly Knowledge; so that, surely, our hiding didseem but a futile thing unto our spirits; for it was to us as that wedid be watched quiet and alway by a Power, as we slipt gentle from bushunto bush.
[EMOTION][RELIEF][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][WITCH]And when the twelfth hour did be nigh, we to begin to draw clear of theHouse; and surely there to come somewhat of ease into my brain andheart; for it did be as that we should come clear of all harm.And I turned to the Maid, that I whisper gentle and loving encouragementunto her. And lo! in that moment, Mine Own gave out a sudden lowsobbing, and was gone still upon the earth. And, truly, my heart did
[HAUNTED HOUSE]seem to die in me; for I knew that there did be directed a Force out ofthe House of Silence, which did be aimed unto the Spirit of Mine OwnMaid. And I caught the Maid instant into mine arms, and I set my bodybetween her body and the dreadness of the House; and surely, my spiritto perceive that there beat out at her a dreadful Force, which did havein it an utter Silence and a bleakness of Desolation. And lo! I saw in amoment that the Force had no power to slay me; but did surely make toslay the Maid. And I set my Spirit and my Will about her, for a shield,
[DANGER][ACTION][CONFLICT][HORROR]if this might be, and I had her to mine arms as that she did be mine ownbabe.And I stood upright, for there did be no more use to hide; and I knewthat I must walk forever until that I have Mine Own to the Shelter ofthe Mighty Refuge, or to walk until I die; for only with speed might Isave her from the dread and horrid Malice of that Force.And I set free the Diskos from my hip, and had it in mine arms besidethe Maid, and I strode forward out of the bushes, and put forth mystrength that I journey with an utter speed. And ever my Spirit did knowof that monstrous Force which did be direct upon us, to the Destructionof Mine Own Maid.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT]And odd whiles, as I walkt, I called Mine Own by her olden love name,and by the new name of Naani; but never did she move or seem even thatshe lived; and surely my heart sickened within me with a mighty despair,so that a constant madness did begin to thrill in me and to make mesomething monstrous in strength, with my fierce agony and intentness tosave. And one hope only had I, that I bring her yet living into theShelter of the Mighty Refuge; and so, swift, to the care of the Doctors.And lo! I did strive to be wise in my despair; for I made a quickhalting soon, and I warmed a broth of the tablets and water upon a hotrock, and strove that I set some of the broth between the closed lips ofMine Own Maid; yet did it be useless, as I to have known before in myheart. And alway I kept my body and my Will and my Spirit and my Love
[HAUNTED HOUSE]between the Maid and the dreadfulness of the House. And I made some ofthe water, and dasht it upon the face of Mine Own, and I chafed herhands; but truly it to have no use; neither did I truly to think itshould be like to.And I wiped her face then, and harked to her dear heart; and surely itdid beat, very slow and husht. And afterward, I wrapt her in the cloak.
And I forced myself then that I eat some of the tablets, and I drank agreat lot of the water, for a fever did seem to burn in me, and moreoverI to mean that I lack not for strength to my task.And I set my gear upon me very speedy, and I lifted Mine Own Beloved,that did be now so husht, that once had been so merry and dearlynaughty. And surely, I nigh choked as the thought uprase in me; but Iset it back, and did but go the more furious. And surely no man did evergo so fast and constant upon his feet, through an eternity; for I wascome again to my strength, and there did be a madness of intention anddespair upon me; and I went on forever.
[EMOTION][METAPHOR][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK][HORROR]And at each sixth hour when I stopt very brief to eat and to drink, Imade to bring Mine Own to her senses; yet she never to come, and alwayher heart to grow the more feeble; so that in the end I did utter fearto hark; and did but set food and drink into me, and onward again withan utter fierceness.And why there came not any Sweet Power of Goodness to help me in mystrait, I never to know; but did call desperate upon all Good things toaid me, as I went, to save Mine Own. But there naught to come; so that Ihad grown into cursings, but that I did not to lose my wisdom to anyuseless foolishness. And alway, as I went, I to see the Land blindly,and oft vague and grey as that I did look at naught real, and again withstrange flashings of light, and the glare of fires; and anon to see theLand as it did be, and all odd whiles to have now to me the feel of adread and monstrous dreaming.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT]And surely I sped forever through the dreadful hours, and went neitherto the right nor to the left, neither did I strive to hide in the bushesnor to evade aught, for I knew that the Maid died slowly in mine arms,and there to be no more gain in life, save by speed, that I have herswift to the Mighty Pyramid to the care of the Doctors. And a great anddespairing madness grew ever within me.And thrice I to have a vague memory that there came creatures at me,from the dark of the Land; but surely I slew them with the Diskos, andhave no remembering thereof, only that mine anger did boil in me, and Ito know once that the Diskos did run blood in my hand.And lo! there to come sudden unto my spirit the knowledge that the
[MONSTER]aether of the world did be stirred. And, indeed, I did be surely sightedby the great Millions of the Mighty Pyramid. And they to have seen mecome forward into the sight of the spy-glasses, and that I did bring amaid in mine arms out of all the night of the world.And truly, as I did after learn, the dear Master Monstruwacan haddiscovered me great hours before; for there had been a steadfast watchkept in the Tower of Observation for my returning, if that ever I shouldreturn; and the might of the Great Spy-Glass had shown me plain a goodwhile gone, and that I did carry somewhat, that was surely the maid thatI did go to find. Yet had the Master given an order that no word be set
abroad to the Peoples, of this discovering, lest that the emotions ofthe Millions to tell overmuch unto the evil Powers of the Land. But nowhad the Millions also come unto knowledge; for many had ceased not towatch through their spy-glasses, and the news to travel very speedythrough the cities; and surely now there did be a constant spiritualnoise in the night, to be heard only of the Spirit, yet to suffice towake and to warn all that Land.And truly, as I after to learn, the Master Monstruwacan did know by theinstruments that there came a force out of the House of Silence, andthis to trouble him greatly; so that he set the word through thePyramid, by the Hour-Slips, that all the Peoples strive to contain theiremotion, lest they bring an Harm and a Destruction upon me, by warningthe Land with the greatness of their feelings.Yet, in verily, this did be useless; for the Peoples did be very human,and could nowise check their gladness and great wonder and excitement;for it was to them so great a wonder almost as we should suffer if thata man in this Age should go beyond Death in search of his Beloved; andafterward to come backward unto the Living; and, surely, in such case,how mighty should be our amazement; and this to be somewise how they didbe; yet with it also a sweet and natural gladness and strong welcoming,which doth be the true beat of the Human Heart unto the Wanderer.
And presently, and through all the time that I came forward across theLand, there did be mayhaps an hundred million that did never cease towatch me from the embrasures, from the View-Tables, and from allvantages. Yet, for a long while, only they which possessed strongspying-glasses did be abled to see me truly, for I was a great way off.And millions did but stare vainly unto that part where I was said to be;and the Hour-Slips to come out four times in the hour, and to tell aughtthat did be known. And so shall you perceive that Humanity did but havegrown the more Human.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT]And, in verity, I went forward with all my strength, and did driveheedless through the miles and the night, and scarce conscious of aught,because of the aching madness of despair that did grow ever within me;for I knew that Mine Own Maid died alway in mine arms, as I did carryher.And later, a monstrous space of hours it to seem, I knew that I was cometo that part of the Road, where it did bend somewhat unto the Vale OfRed Fire; and this did be something anigh to that wilderness where theYouths did fight with the giant-men.And I came over the Road, and urged my body utter furious across theLand. And, surely, in that moment when I cross the Road, great numbersof the Millions did see me, that had not seen before. And there went a
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][WEAPON][TRANSITION]shaking in the aether of the World, because of the sudden emotion of somighty a Multitude; and lo! it did be as that in that moment the Landwas at last waked; for there came from far away unto the Eastward, afaint and dreadful laughter, as that a monstrous Being laught untoItself in some lost and dreadful country. And the Laughter passed overthe Land, and did echo strangely, as it did seem, in this part and thatpart, and presently to go rolling round in the far and hid West Lands,and to be as that it wandered awhile amid the far mountains of the OuterLands, and was presently lost from my hearing.And my heart chilled a little maybe; but yet did I not care over-much;for I to lack all if that I lackt Death, if that I not to be given powerto save Mine Own. Yet did I make a little pause, so that I gat the knife
[DANGER]from the belt of the Maid, and did also to bare the Capsule; for if thatthere came a Destruction upon us, I to make instant sure that Mine OwnMaid be safe unto death, and I then to go quickly with the Capsule.And afterward I again upon my way.And ever upon each sixth hour I did stop that I eat and drink, and didonward again, even as a machine; for I commanded myself to this duty ofvictual, that I lack not my strength unto the saving of the Maid. Yet,truly, I did seem to choke alway as I strove with the tablets.
[CONFLICT][DANGER][EMOTION][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][PROBLEM][CONTEXT][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR][MONSTER]And lo! ever as I went forward did the Land awake; and my spirit to knowthat Great Forces did be abroad, restless. And the Monsters to beginwild roamings, because that they also to know of the Unrest that did become into the Land. And there to go presently odd roarings across theLand, from night unto night. And I to go forward the more desperate, and
[PERSPECTIVE][MONSTER]to step neither to the right nor to the left; but to make direct unto myMighty Home.And the Vale of Red Fire did be soon afar off unto my right, and thebulk of the Watcher of the North-East to be somewise unto my left,before me; and the great back to be toward me. And truly, I lookt at theBrute-Force, and it did be as that I drew nigh unto a Mountain ofWatchfulness; and above it in the everlasting night did be the blueshining of the luminous ring, and the ring shed a light downward overthe Monster-Force; and the shoulders did be huge and humpt, even as twosmall hills, and it lookt forever from me through eternity unto thePyramid. And this to be plain, though I did be a great way off from it.
[EMOTION][DEATH][CONFLICT][MONSTER]And sudden, as I went, there came Somewhat out of a bush unto my left,and rose up at me, very long and tall; and surely it did be some kind ofa man, and came at me. And my fury and my despair came inward upon me ina moment, so that I troubled not to set down the Maid, but leaped at thething, where it did be yet half hid in the dark. And lo! it died inpieces, and the Diskos did roar to content my heart an instant. And I
[DEATH][EMOTION]then onward again the more savage, so that my heart did be a dreadfulthing within me.And a great while I went then, and do have a vague remembering that thistime and that there came things at me from out of the dark; but surelythey to have died very speedy, that I not to remember more.And the hours did pass in spaces of time that did be made of terror andnumbness and an utter and evergrowing fury of despair. And I did be atlast as that I did burn inward with a grim and dreadful energy, and toseem to grow the less tired, and to come over the Land with a strongerease and somewhat as that I did desire things to come unto me, that Ihave something to ease my heart; for lo! Mine Own Maid did be dying in
[EMOTION]mine arms as I carried her; and I to be in a bleak and sickened dread,so that I lacked all courage now to listen unto her heart, as I havetold; and went burning, and dry and hot in the eyes.And ever there sounded the roarings across the Land; and there did beadded presently lower and more horrid and dread noises. And later Iheard a far thudding of the earth; and in a little there went past me agreat Man, running so heavy that he did make a shaking as he past me;yet, in verity, by a sweet mercy, he saw me not, and was gone onward ina moment and lost utter into the night. And the aether of the world tobe full of the trouble of the Peoples, as the Man past me; and afterwardthere to be a stirring of glad thankfulness. And truly, alway my spirit
did know strangely as in a dream, that the Millions set their sympathyand pity and help about me, and did girt me about with Human love andwith encouragement and with uplifted thoughts. Yet, in verity, did allbe as water beside the fierce wine of my love and despair, which didurge me onward in a natural lacking of all dread, save for Mine Own. Andtruly this doth be the way of Love, and shall make fearless the heart ofthe weakest. And there to be prayers in the night, and all the aether tobe surged with the spiritual trouble and callings and cryings of theMillions; so that, indeed, if that my spirit so to hear these things, itto be conceived that these do pass outward into the Everlasting, and tobreak upon the Shore of Eternity in an anguish, even as a visible foamof supplication.
[EMOTION][CONFLICT]And surely the unity of love of the Millions did make a natural Forceabout me; for, in verity, the Force that did come from the House to seemto be somewhat eased from the Maid; yet there to be no surety in this;for all did be desperation and turmoil in my heart, and I to have butone thought in my brain, that I bring Mine Own swift across the Landunto the Mighty Pyramid, and so unto the Doctors.And lo! there stole presently from afar the deep and dreadful baying ofthe Hounds; so that I knew we did be surely dead, save that a miracleshould happen. And I askt in my heart in a fierce and mad fashion whythat they did not to rig one of the olden shooting weapons, that theyshoot from the Pyramid, and so to give me some aid in mine extremity.
[EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE]And behold, even as I did be so bitter, there went afar upward in theeverlasting night, where did shine the Last Light, the sharp flashingsof the Set Speech; and I did warm in my heart a little with hope; forthe Master Monstruwacan did see that I was now all discovered, and thereto be no more use for silence, and did speak straight and helpful untome. And I made to read the Set Speech, but mine eyes had been mad andnear blinded with lost hope. But in a moment I saw clear. And behold,the dear Master Monstruwacan bid me to keep good my courage, for thatthey did have made ready three of the olden weapons; and moreover, theyto save me, even if that they have to turn loose the Earth-Current overthe Land. And he commended me with Honour, and that I strive forward yet
[EMOTION][HORROR]a little while; for that an Hundred Thousand Men did be Prepared, anddid even then go downward in their armour by the Lifts.And surely, as you shall think, my heart eased a little in me, and thereburned somewhat of a hope in my spirit that I yet to bring Mine Ownunto the Doctors, ere it be too late.And the baying of the Hounds did grow nearer in the night; and there togrow ever the roarings over the Land; and a sense of Evil andmonstrousness to be abroad in all the night.And lo! I to have come by this so that the Watcher of the North-East did
[MONSTER]be backward upon my left; and I lookt keen and fearful now at theMonster-Force; and behold, the great bell-ear did quiver continually, sothat I saw the Monster made somewhat known unto all the Land. And theMonster did look as ever, unto the Pyramid; and did be a great andsilent Hill of Life that did lean toward the Pyramid; and the light fromthe Ring came downward upon the monstrous hide, which did be set in vastfolds and wrinkles upon it. And the Monster to know of me; yet never tomove, neither to show life, save that the ear did quiver so horridly.And I knew that they made some great preparation in the Pyramid for ourdefence; for all the night did begin now to shake and to quiver with themighty beat of the Earth-Current.
XVIIN THE COUNTRY OF SILENCEAnd lo! I did be come something nigh unto the Mighty Pyramid; and mygreat Home went up vast into the everlasting night, as a very Mountainof sweet Life and Safety, and had surely amazed me afresh with the utterBigness of it, only that despair and weariness did have too grim an holdupon my heart for me to care of aught, save to have Mine Own Maid withinthe safe wonder of the huge Refuge. And it did be still afar off fromme.And I to go forward across the Land with a strong going; and lo! as I
[DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][MONSTER]past a hollow place where did burn a fire-hole, there came something outof the hollow. And the thing gat upward from crawling, and did be agreat and haired Man. And the Man lookt at me, and afterward came untome, and did put his hands forward, very eager, as he came. And I did seethe hands plain in the light from the fire-hole, and the hands weremonstrous, and did be armed brutish with horrid claws, so that the Manshould have been able to rip aught, even as a wild beast.
[MONSTER]And I put Mine Own very swift to the earth; and surely, I cared not forlife or aught; for this thing did make to delay me, and I to be fiercewith despair that aught should halt me. And lo! I leaped very furiousand with cold anger at the giant; and I smote at the monstrous brute;but he unto the side in an instant of time, and so escaped the blow. Andhe flung forth his monstrous arm out of the half-dark of a shadow thatdid be cast by the dance of the fire-hole, and caught my head-piece andpluckt it from me so strong and brutish that he cast me nigh a dozenfeet on to my back. Yet I was not harmed in the life, but only sore
[ACTION][DEATH][TRANSITION][CONFLICT]shaked and bruised; and I to be up in a moment, and came in upon thegiant, and the Diskos did roar and blaze in my hands as I swung theweapon. And I gat the giant above the middle part, and the Diskos didglut itself, and went through the giant as that he did be naught, thoughso huge and monstrous and girt with strength. And he to have surelyturned his shoulders as he died; for the upper part of the giant-manwent horrid to the earth, and the legs and the trunk stood plain in thelight of the fire-hole, and the blood went upward as a fountain in thenight.And I made no pause, but leaped unto the Maid, and had her in a momentto mine arms, and onward again past that dead thing, that did only thento fall with an horrid sound. And surely the night did be full of an
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK][DANGER][METAPHOR][HORROR]astonishment and upliftedness of the Millions, so that their spiritualcryings did go all about me, and did tell me that they had perceivedthis thing, and did cast their love and delight unto me, and a vastexcitement to be upon them.And lo! I scarce to have gone a great mile more, but there came twovague things out of a dark place, where certain rocks did upstand; and Ismote them with the Diskos, and went onward; but what they did be, Inever to know.And surely, after that, I did seem to go smiting forever; for there tocome, time and oft, strange things out from the bushes and the rocks, asthat all the Land did be a-crawl with foul and monstrous life, and I togo smiting, as in a dream, and to speed forward ever with a more fiercedespair; for surely the end of our lives did be come, and I not to begiven power to save Mine Own Maid.
[SURPRISE][DANGER][CONFLICT][DEATH][MURDER]And all the Land did be full of grim and monstrous roarings, andodd-wise lower sounds, very deadly. And once I did hear the noise ofgiants running. And all the night to be Evil. And, in verity, how I didnot be slain by some dread Force, I not to know, unless that I did beburned free of all weakness that an Evil Power should have chance toharm me through; for, indeed, I had been dealt a bitter training amonstrous time.
[DANGER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][FLASHBACK][ACTION][TRANSITION][METAPHOR]And lo! there to be again the deep and dreadful baying of theNight-Hounds unto the South-East, and to be nearer; and I to know nowthat no strength of mine should serve to protect Mine Own.And lo! from the upwardness of the night, where did be the Last Light,there sudden to come downward a strange blue flash, that smote downwardinto the Land unto the South-East. And again the flash to come, and
[CONFLICT][SURPRISE][DANGER][TRANSITION][ACTION]mayhap a score times after; and there to come down out of the height apeculiar crackling sound, that did be less than the thunder of this age,yet more loud than any other sound that you ever to hear. And lo! I knewthat the Humans did begin to fight for me, that I bring Mine Own safeunto Home.And behold! it did be as that all the wakefulness of the Land that had
[DANGER][CONFLICT][MONSTER]been, did be but as sleep, beside the wakefulness that now to come; forsurely the Night now to seem to rock with the roarings of the Monsters,and with the be-stirring of Great Forces. And ever there to go over theLand the yowling of that strange and dreadful Laughter, which did comefrom that hid Country in the night of the lost East.And lo! there arose constant now the hoarse and dreadful bayings of theHounds, and made known that a mighty pack did be out. And they to seem
[EMOTION][ACTION]to be no more, maybe, than a good mile unto the South-East; and I to beall alone, save for the dying Maid that I held in mine arms. And I looktvainly and with despair for the Hundred Thousand that did be Prepared,and had come downward, as you do know, unto mine aid. But truly, theredid be naught to see anywheres, save the strange lights and shadows ofthe Land; and the movement of monstrous life in this place and thatplace. And the Hounds to come nearer with every moment of time; so thatindeed, I knew that death did be very nigh.And I ceased not from my stride; but went forward, and did begin to run;for the Pyramid was not a huge way off in the night; and the shine ofthe Circle about it, to be plain seen, save here and there, where it didbe hid strangely. And I to have a despairing hope that I come yet with
[EMOTION][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE][DANGER][METAPHOR][PROBLEM][CHARACTERIZATION][CONFLICT][EXPOSITION]Mine Own into the safety of the Circle.And the baying of the Hounds to come ever the more near; and surely itdid be a doubly hideous bitter thing that I lose My Dear One, so nighunto Home; and the great Mountain of my Home to go upward before me intothe night, and to seem so near that surely I did be almost there; butyet, mayhap, two great miles off, even then. And, behold, I called outin vain despair and to no end, why that none come to give me aid in thisextremity; for the Hounds did bay now but the half of a great mile, uponmy left, and did surely have scent of me, by the way of their dreadfulbaying.And, truly, the Millions to have an anguish of sympathy for me; for thespiritual noise of their emotion did be plain unto my spirit; and theysurely to have seen and to have interpreted the way that I did lookabout me and appear to call out in despair; for there came all about mein a moment the companioning of a great and sweet spiritual force, whichdid be bred of their quick going with me in their understanding andlove; and they to have perceived how that I did be unto the end of hope;and the Hounds to be almost upon me.
[EMOTION]And in this moment, there came afresh to my hearing the shaking beat ofthe Earth-Current; so that I knew the Humans to take desperate means tosave. And there came to my view a vast pack of the Hounds unto my left,and they came running at a great pace, and their heads did be low, andthey to be so great as horses; and seen plain, and again in shadow, allin the same moment, as they did come.And, in verity, I knew that we two to be dead indeed ere a minute begone, if that the Humans not to haste. And I stood where I did be; forthere was no more use to run; and I lookt from the Hounds unto theMighty Pyramid, and again to the Hounds. And again I lookt with my hope
[SURPRISE][ACTION][PROBLEM][DANGER][CONFLICT][CONTEXT][FLASHBACK][EXPOSITION][MONSTER]gone, unto the Pyramid; for the Hounds did be scarce two hundred fathomsoff from me; and there did be hundreds of the mighty beasts. And lo!even as I lookt that last time unto the Pyramid, there brake out amonstrous bursting flame, that did rush downward from the Sealed lowerpart of the Mighty Pyramid. And the flame smote downward upon the Landwhere the Hounds did run, and all the Night to be lost from my sight inthe brightness and strangeness of that mighty flame; so that I saw nomore the Pyramid, or aught; but only the shining and dreadful glory ofthat flame. And the Flame made a blast in the Night, and a hotness that
[DANGER][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][MURDER]did seem to wither me, even where I did be from it. And I perceived thatthe Humans had truly turned loose the Earth-Current upon the Hounds,that I be saved. And there went a constant great thundering over theLand, because that the Earth-Force did rend and split the air, and didtear up the earth. And the roaring of the Monsters did be husht and lostin that mighty sound; and I to see no place where the Hounds did be; butonly flames and broken lands where the Earth-Force did strike; and greatrocks did be hurled all whithers, with a vast noise; and truly it did bea mercy that I was not slain an hundred times, if this might be, by thefailings and burstings of great rocks and boulders.
[SURPRISE][TRANSITION][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][FLASHBACK][METAPHOR][HORROR]And lo! in a moment the Humans did cut off the Earth-Force, and had itagain to their control. And there to seem now a great silence upon theLand, and an utter dark; save that flames and noise came from that partwhere the Current did strike. And I very speedy to come free of thedazedness that had me, and made again to my running; for, in truth, itto seem now that I should yet be let to win unto safety with Mine Own.
And mine eyes did grow presently unto their accustomed using; and I tolook all ways about me, lest there come somewhat upon me even then towork our deaths. And for a good time there to be naught that I did seeanywheres, neither there to be the wakeful sounds of the Land, save onlythe grim and horrid Laughter from afar in the dead East.And oft as I did run, I to stare hungry hearted upward at the MightyPyramid; and surely it alway now to seem to be less bright than before.And in the first, I to set this to the count that mine eyes did be yetdazed by the great Flame of the Earth-Force; but soon I to perceive thatit did be otherwise; and that there did be truly a less brightness ofthe light that did shine throughout all the Mighty Redoubt. And this
[DANGER][EMOTION][PROBLEM]lack I conceived had owing to that great using of the force and power ofthe Earth-Current that had been loosed to save us. And I to have thisnew thing cold upon my heart; for, truly, if that the Force of theCurrent to be made over low, there to be a danger for all the Humansthat did live, even for all the great Millions of the Mighty Refuge. Andthis, did be surely known by the Masters; and they to have no more powerto aid me with the Current, until it flow strong again, lest that theydestroy all the Peoples of the Earth. And all this to be plain to me ina moment, as I ran; and I to be but the more desperate to come untoinstant safety with the Maid.
[CONFLICT][DANGER][PROBLEM][TRANSITION]And surely, I to be yet in expecting of the Hundred Thousand to comeunto me; but they not to come. And all about me the Land to begin againto give out the noises of the Monsters; and to send forth new andpeculiar noises, as that there did be more awaked in the Land than didbe ever heard by me before. And presently, I saw that there went livingthings, creeping, between me and the light of the Circle. And I to knowthat I yet to have to fight bitter, if that I would bring the Maid safe.
[PROBLEM][DANGER][TRANSITION]And I swung the Diskos free, and ran on.And sudden my Spirit to know that I did be warned of some new peril; andI to look upward into the night, that the Master Monstruwacan shouldmayhap to tell me the danger, by the Set Speech. But, in truth, therecame not the quick flashings of the Set Speech; but only an upwardstillness, and a dimness of the lights of the Mighty Pyramid. Andafterward, I to learn that the dear Master Monstruwacan made to warn meof danger; but that all the instruments of the Tower of Observation tofail to work, and likewise all the machinery of the Pyramid to cease,even unto the moving of the great lifts, and the moan of the Air Pumps;and all to have been this way for nigh a great hour, until that theEarth-Current did flow again more full. And surely, this doth show that
[DANGER][SURPRISE][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][PROBLEM][MONSTER]Death did nigh to come unto all the Millions, because of the great trialthat did be made to save us.But, truly, my spirit did be warned by the trouble of the Millions, andbecause the Master Monstruwacan called vaguely with his brain-elements;so that I went ever more warily, and did look all ways. And lo! suddenI to stare above me into the night; and there to be a pale circle, veryquiet and steadfast that did go alway over the twain of us. And I saw
that this did be surely one of those sweet Powers of Holiness, that didstand between our souls and some dread Power that came anigh to work ourDestruction. And I to have no over-fear; but did put my trust in theForce of Holiness, and went forward, running warily.And surely, I came mayhap so nigh as to within four hundred paces of theCircle; and I to think that I yet to win Mine Own safe and undelayedwithin the guarding of the Circle. And the light of the Circle did burndim; so that I had sudden fear whether that it be any more use for aGuard, until that the Earth-Current to come more free. And all this as I
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT][DANGER][ACTION][MONSTER]ran, swift and wary and utter anxious.And lo! in that moment in a dim place there rose up three beast-men fromthe earth, and came at me, growling. And the first did be so close thatI had no room to the Diskos; but beat in the head of the man with thehaft-part. And I leaped unto the side then, and swung the Diskos, and
[EMOTION][WEAPON][ACTION]did be utter mad, yet chill, with fury; so that the Maid did be no morethan a babe in the crook of mine arm. And I came in sudden to meet thetwo beast-men as they ran at me; and I cut quick and light with thegreat Weapon, and did have that anger upon me which doth make the hearta place of cold and deadly intent; so that I had a wondrous and brutaljudgement to the slaying. And, truly, I slew them as that they had beenno more than mice; and I had no harm, neither so much as a touch fromthem. And, behold! in that moment there came a great Shout of wonder and
[TRANSITION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][DANGER][ACTION][MONSTER]of welcome from within the Circle. And I lookt swiftly, and began againto run; for there did be men in grey armour all within the Circle; yetcame they not to mine aid.And lo! in a moment I knew why that the Hundred Thousand did have heldoff from me in mine extremity; for, behold! there did be monstrous Black
[CONFLICT][DANGER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM]Mounds all along without of the Circle, and did rock and sway with aforce of strange life that did set an horror into my soul as I ran; fortruly they did be the visible signs of monstrous Forces of Evil. And didany Human have ventured outward beyond the Circle, then had that manbeen Destroyed in the Spirit, and lost utterly; so that none had daredto come; neither had it been of use if any had made themselves to be asacrifice to aid me; for, truly, they to have been of no use, when dead,as you shall say.And there came a constant shouting from the Hundred Thousand to me, thatI haste, and indeed to haste. And truly I did haste with all mystrength. And I lookt unto the dear Circle of Holiness that did be above
[DANGER][PERSPECTIVE][ACTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][METAPHOR]us twain; and it to go steadfast over us; so that I saw we to be surelysaved.And lo! I to be no more than an hundred paces now from the glowing ofthe Circle. And behold! even in that instant, there must come brutal
[CONFLICT][MURDER]things to destroy us; for there came an herd of squat and brutish menall about me in a moment from the shadows, where they had been hid. Andthey caught at me, and caught at the Maid to tear her from mine arm. Andtruly, it did be as that they surely to have success; for I could nowisein a moment free myself, and yet to guard the Maid and to use theDiskos. And lo! I kickt with my metal boots, and gave from them, and
[ACTION][CONFLICT][EMOTION][DANGER]turned all ways in a moment, and wrenched free; and I leaped back; andthe herd of horrid brutes after me.And now I to have space for the Diskos, and a grimness in my heart; andI came round very sudden, and ran in among the men, smiting. And I hitvery swift both from the right and the left, and to and fro with aconstant quick circling. And the Diskos did spin and roar, and made astrange light upon the faces of the men, and they to have tusks like tothe tusks of pigs. And surely I did rage through them, smiting. And they
[CONFLICT][EMOTION][DANGER][ACTION]to strike me a thousand times with great stones, so that mine armourrang, and was all fresh burst, and I near to sicken under the blows andnew wounds; but they not to harm the Maid, for I carried her above theirsquat and brutish reach.And the brute-men to seem without end. But I made alway forward unto theglowing of the Circle; and the night to be full in that place of thefierce shoutings of the Hundred Thousand; and many--as I did learn--tohave tried to come unto me, but that their comrades held them from souseless a dying.And, in verity, I to be now scarce fifty paces from the glowing of theCircle; and did be nigh to fall; for I did be so utter dazed and woundedwith the fight, and ill with a vast weariness and the despair andmadness of my journey, and moreover, as you do know, I not to haveslept, but to have carried the Maid forever through days and nights, andto have fought oft.
[ACTION][DANGER][CONFLICT]And lo! the Hundred Thousand stood just within the Circle, and they thatwere to the front did swing each man the Diskos; and they hurled eachthe Diskos in among the herd of the tuskt men that did make to slay me.And surely this to save me; for the herd did thin to my front; and I togather my strength, and to charge with despair, and to smite and neverbe ceased of smiting; so that there did be dead creatures all about. Andbehold! I brake through the herd, with Mine Own, and did be upon the
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT][EMOTION]Circle. And lo! I stept over the Circle, that did scarce now to give outa Resistance; and a thousand hands did come forward to give me help; yetdid none touch me, but gave back from me; for there did be that about mewhich held them off, as with a little awe; for I to be strange untothem.And I stood there in a great silence, and the Diskos in my hand ranblood to the haft. And maybe I rockt as I stood; for many again did put
[CONFLICT][DANGER][SURPRISE]out their hands, as to hold me, and again drew back, and were silent.And I lookt unto them, and they lookt back at me; and I did gaspawhile, and was strangely dazed, and did try to tell them that I hadneed of the Doctors for the Life of Mine Own Maid, that did be dying inmine arms. And behold, in that moment, there did be a sound of giantsrunning, out in the night. And some then to cry out different matters,to aid me, and to beware of the giants, and to bring the Doctors toattend me on the instant.And other voices did call that the Holy Light was gone from above; andlikewise the Black Mounds from the outer part of the Circle. And there
[SURPRISE]did be a monstrous noise of roarings in the Land, and all to comebewildered unto my brain, which did surely fail now with the grim andutter stress which had been mine so long.And there to be also a constant noise that came from near and fromupward; and truly I to know, as in a dream, that it did be made of theshouting of the great Millions, that did make an eternal and vagueroaring-sound upward in the night, that did come down from the upperheights, no more loud than a strange and continual murmuring out of thelofty miles.And surely, I to find my voice in a little minute, and did ask a nearman whether there be any Doctors with the men. And in that moment therecame forward a Master of the Diskos, which doth be as a Commander ofthis age. And he made the Salute of Honour with the Diskos, and would
[CONFLICT][DANGER]have eased the Maid from me; but I to ask again, very slow, whether thatthere was a Doctor a-near. And he on the instant to give an order; andthe great thousands to begin to shape, and did make a mighty lane untothe Great Gateway of the Mighty Pyramid.And the Master of the Diskos made a sign to certain that did be near;and they stood about me, as I to know dully, lest I fall; but they notto touch me; for I did be as that I must not be laid hand upon; for Idid near to choke with despair lest I to have come Home too late; andsurely, also, the men to seem as that I did be strange unto them.And there went orders swift and constant this way and that; and lo! in a
[TRANSITION][SURPRISE][METAPHOR]little while, there came two big men of the Upward Cities, running; andthey had a little man between them upon a sling. And the little man didbe a Master of the Doctors; and he aided me gentle to lay Mine Own Maidupon the earth. And the Master of the Diskos made a sign, and the menthat did be near, turned each his back; and the Doctor to makeexamination for the life of Mine Own.And there to come about that time a seeming of silence in the land. And
[CONFLICT][DANGER][EMOTION]truly the Hundred Thousand did be utter quiet; and a great quiet in theMighty Pyramid; for, in truth, all to know, by this, that there to be afear that the Maid I did bring out of the night, did be slain by theEvil Forces.And sudden the little man that did be the Master Doctor, lookt up quietand piteous at me; so that I knew in a moment that Mine Own Maid did bedead. And he to see that I knew; and he covered the face of Mine Own,and stood up very speedy; and he called softly to the men that did be tomy back, and he signed to them that some to support me, and some to liftMine Own Maid, and bear her unto the Great Gateway. And he lookt keen atme; and I to fight a little that I breathe; and afterward did make withmy hands, that the men not to come near me, neither to touch Mine Own.
[DEATH][CONFLICT][ACTION][TRANSITION][DANGER]And the Master Doctor to understand that I did be truly strong until Idie, and did beckon the men from me, and from the Maid.And I stoopt, in a little, and I lifted Mine Own Maid into mine arms forthat last journeying.And I came down the mighty lane of the Hundred Thousand, all in theirgrey armour. And they did make silent salute with the Diskos reversed,each man as I passed him, and did be utter silent. And I scarce to wot
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][DEATH][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][FLASHBACK][DANGER][TRANSITION]of aught, save that all the world did be quiet and emptied, and my taskto have failed, and Mine Own to lie dead in mine arms. Yet, truly, didit to have failed utter? for I had surely saved Mine Own from the terrorof the Second Night Land, and she not to have come alone and withmadness unto her death; but to have died in mine arms; and she surely tohave been comforted within her spirit, because that my love did be soutter about her. And I to think vaguely and terribly on an hundred sweetlove actions that she to have shown unto me; and sudden I did rememberwith a dreadful pain how that I never to have waked to discover Mine OwnMaid kissing me in my sleep, as I to have meant. And a madness ofanguish did flash sudden through the numbness upon my brain; so that Idid be blinded a little, and surely went crooked in my walk; for I toknow, sudden, that the Master Doctor steadied mine elbow for a moment;but afterward did leave me be, as I to have again control of my spirit.
[ACTION][EMOTION][TRANSITION][MONSTER]And lo! as I drew nigh unto the Great Gateway, the lights of the Pyramidto begin to glow again more strong, and the machinery of the Lifts andthe Air Pumps to work, because that now the Earth-Current did grow oncemore to natural strength. And they to have power now to open the GreatGate, which did be done by great machines.And there to come forth to meet me a number of the Masters of the MightyPyramid; and the dear Master Monstruwacan did come before them all, soeager as that he did be mine own Father. And he to have heard somewhat,
vaguely, that there to have been a fear for the life of the maid that Idid bring.And surely, he did be told by one near to the Gateway, that the Maid didbe dead in mine arms; for he and all the Masters did pause and standsilent for me to go by, and did reverse each his Diskos; and this tohave been an Honour shown, than which there did be scarce any greater.And there went a constant murmuring up in the night, which did be thespeech of the Millions, questioning. And the news that the Maid did bedead, went upward through the miles. And my spirit to know, as in a
[SURPRISE][DEATH]dream, of the spiritual noise which did go outward through all space,and did be the grief of the Multitudes, as they did hear this thing.Yet, truly, there did nothing comfort me anywise; neither I proper yetto know the verity of my loss; for I did go stunned.And I came in through the Great Gateway, and the Full Watch did standthere silent in their armour; and they made the Salute of Honour. And Iwent onward with the dead Maid that I did bring out of Eternity.
And presently, they that were around, did guide me, with the Maid inmine arms, unto the Great Lift. And I took Mine Own Maid into the GreatLift; and the Masters came with me, and did be in their armour; and nonedid speak to me. And the Master Monstruwacan and the Master of theDoctors stood silent to the side of me. And there did be everywheregreat Multitudes, that I did see vaguely; but my spirit not to wot ofthem.
[SURPRISE][CONFLICT][MONSTER]And lo! I stood very quiet and dumb as we did go upward through themiles; and the Millions of the Cities stood about the Great Lift, andthere did be a great silence upward and downward through the strangemiles; save for the weeping of women in dear sympathy, that did soundfar and low and constant.And presently I to know that the Master Monstruwacan and the Master ofthe Doctors did look one to the other; and I to be aware sudden that Istood in my blood; for I did be wounded in an hundred parts, and theblood to go alway from me. Yet did the Master Doctor be slow to do aughtfor me, because that he to perceive that I did be slain in the heart;and there to be no pain so dreadful as that he should be like to wake meunto, if that he went hastily.
[CONFLICT][SURPRISE][EMOTION][MONSTER]Yet, presently, there did come whirlings into my head; and someone didsurely make to ease Mine Own Maid from mine arms. But I held her,dumbly; and the blood to go the more from me; and they not to know whatshould be done. And I to look at them. And the dear Master Monstruwacandid be saying somewhat unto me, that I did have no power to hear; butonly to know that his face did be very human. And there went a strangenoise all about me; and the Master Monstruwacan to seem to hold me up,and to beckon to some that did be to my back. And lo! there came a
[WEAPON][TRANSITION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][EXPOSITION][METAPHOR]blackness, and the gentleness of arms about mine armour....
And I to come presently to quietness and to half-dreams; and did alwayto seem that I carried Mine Own Maid in mine arms. But truly there didpass three great days, whilst that I did be thus. And I all that whileto be laid quiet, and to be tended by the Master Doctor, and aided byall knowledge that did be known of Humans.And on the third day, as it might be called, I to come full unto mysenses; and the pain to take me in the breast; and the Master of theDoctors did be with me, and they that nurst me; and the Master Doctorwatched me very keen and gentle.And I did be in a bed of the Health Room of mine own city. And I gat
[TRANSITION]from the bed, and the Doctor to say naught; but only to watch me. And Iwalkt to and fro a little, and he alway to watch me; and presently hegave me somewhat to drink; and I drank. And I was gone soon from allknowledge.And I to come again unto a knowing that I yet to live; and there went acertain strength in my body. And lo! the first that I did see, was the
[PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT]Master of the Doctors; and I to perceive in a moment that he had wakenedme, and had nurst my strength for that moment, that I live through theBurial. For he to be very wise, and to have known from that first seeingof me, that I not to live after that Mine Own did die.And there was brought to me a loose garment; but I to refuse thegarment, dumbly, and did look about me very troubled and forgetting. Andthe Master Doctor lookt alway at me; and lo! in a moment he called one,
[WEAPON][CONFLICT][CONTEXT][TRANSITION][ACTION]and gave an order. And there was brought in then my broken armour, and agarment to wear below. And I then to know that I did be content in thismatter; and the Doctor alway to watch me. And they drest me in my brokenarmour.
[SURPRISE][FLASHBACK][EMOTION][TRANSITION][WITCH]And surely, as they drest me, my spirit to hear the sorrow and sympathyof the Multitudes, and did know that they went downward by millions,unto the Country of Silence.And lo! in that moment when I near to be in mine armour, I to mindsudden again that I never to have waked to discover Mine Own Maidkissing me in my sleep. And the Pain gat me in the breast, so that I hadsurely ended then, but that the Master Doctor set somewhat to my breath,that eased me, and gave something of dullness unto my senses for awhile.
And I did be carried then in a sling unto the Great Lift, and there didbe a bed in the lift, and the Doctor to have me to lie upon the bed; andI to know that he also to know that I never to need a bed any more;neither should I ever to come upward again in the Lift.And truly the Mighty Pyramid did be an emptyness; for there did seem tobe left only the Stress Masters that did arrange the moving of theMillions. And the Stress Masters did stand about the Lift, as we droptdownward through the great miles unto the Underground Fields. And wecame downward in the last unto the Country of Silence, which did lie anhundred miles deep in the world, and did be an hundred miles every wayof Silence unto the Dead.
[ACTION][CONFLICT]And they that were with me, gat me from the Lift, and did mean to carryme in the sling unto The Last Road. But I stood upon my feet, and madethat I should walk, and I held out my hand for the Diskos, which one didcarry. And the Master Doctor signed that they should obey me, as myspirit to know. And I walkt very steadfast down the Way that did leadunto The Last Road; and the Master Doctor walkt behind me, a littlespace off.
And surely, there did be all the Peoples of the World in that greatCountry; and the Peoples did be spread out forever, so far as my seeingdid go; and they to have sight of me; and all the aether did be stirredwith the humanness of their sorrow and their kind sympathy. And theregrew a murmur, which did be like to a low rolling thunder, and did bethe voices of the Peoples. And the rolling of that great husht Soundwent to and fro across that mighty Country of Quiet; and there to beafterward an utter silence.And I saw below me the place of the Last Rest, where did be thebeginning of The Last Road; and there did lie there a little figure,covered with a white robe, that did glimmer with the beauteous work ofwomen that had stitcht love and honour into that Last Garment. And
[MONSTER]surely, I to rock upon my feet, and to steady myself with the Diskos;and the Master Doctor to be unto my side in a moment, and gave me againsomething that I breathe-in. But, indeed, I to refuse, after that I hadtaken one breath of the drug; for I to be able to bear my pain thelittle time that I now to have to live; and I to mean that I have nodimness of my senses for those short minutes that I should have yet nearunto Mine Own. And truly the Master Doctor did not press me anywise, buthad a perfect understanding, and went quiet again to the rearward.And I came soon to that place where Mine Own Dead One did lie; and theMaster Monstruwacan stood to her feet, and did be clothed in greyarmour, and had the Diskos reversed; and this to be for an Honour untoMy Dead Maid.
[EMOTION]And there kneeled two maids in white, one to the right and one to theleft of Mine Own, and they to be for Faithfulness, and did be maids,because that they watched by a maid; and had likewise been matrons, ifthat the Dead had been wife unto any.And the place at the Head of the Last Rest did be empty, and did be forme; and he that stood to the head, did be for Love; for it did be thechief, and did hold dominion over and did make to live both Faithfulnessand Honour. And this to be the way of the Burial alway.And lo! I took my courage into my heart; and I stood to the head of Mine
[METAPHOR][TRANSITION]Own Maid; and I lookt down upon the wondrous white glory of the garment,which did be white because that Mine Own did be a Maid; yet did beworked with yellow Flowers of Weeping, as we did call them, because thatshe had died in love. And I to know that no hand had toucht thatwonderful garment, save the hands of maidens.And behold! as I stood there, from far away over the Land, there didcome a far and faint sound; and the sound did come more nigh, so that Iknew that afar off, beyond the Hills of the Babes, the Millions didbegin to sing the Calling Song, where Million did call husht untoMillion, and the sound did come onward toward where we did be, and didgo over us, and pass onward in a husht and wondrous breathing of sound,as that all the Love that did be ever in this world, did call in a lowanguish unto a lost Beloved. And the sound to pass away and away over
[DEATH][EMOTION][TRANSITION]that mighty Country in the deep Earth, and did hush and hush unto agreat and utter silence, save for a faint murmur of countless womenweeping, that did be in the air of that Land of Quiet.And there to be a space of silence, and again the silence to be brokenby a far sound; and there to come again from beyond the far Hills of theBabes a strange and low sound, and did be as of a wind wandering throughdamp forests. And the sound grew, and came across the Hills of theBabes, and did be breathed forth by Million after Million, so that in alittle I to hear the Song of Weeping sung very low and sorrowful by themultitudes. And the Song came onward over all that great Country, andpast over us, and went onward into the far Land beyond the Dome, and didbe caught by the voices of Millions that did be hid in great distances,and so to go onward forever, and to die at last unto a mighty silence.
[EMOTION][DEATH][MONSTER]And the Master Monstruwacan lookt at me from the feet of Mine Own Maid,and I to know that the moment did be come when I to part from the MaidNaani forever and forever, even though I to live in some strange future,and to find her soul in some other sweet child. And I stoopt and laidthe Diskos beside Mine Own Maid there upon the Last Rest; and the twomaids drew back the light wonder of the Garment, and showed me the faceof Mine Own, and she to sleep there forever so sweet and husht as achild, and as oft I to have seen her to sleep. And I lookt a littlewhile, and the pain of my heart did be sufficient, so that I knew I diedas I lookt. And once more I lookt, and I set my soul about Mine Own. And
[CONFLICT][TRANSITION][EMOTION][DANGER][ACTION][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][MONSTER]I fought with myself, and stood upward, and the maids did cover the faceof Mine Own Maid.And the Master Monstruwacan commended Naani unto Eternity. And he raisedthe Diskos reversed; and lo! the Road did begin to move upward unto theDome, and Mine Own Maid did be upon the Road; and I to fight that I keepbreathing; so that I not to die before she be lost utter to my sight.
[EMOTION][DEATH][SURPRISE][METAPHOR][CONFLICT][MONSTER]And there did rise now a sound from all that Country that had no orderin it; and did be like to a low moaning that did fill all the air ofthe Land; and there to be also a constant sound, as of a littlewhistling dree wind that did be in all that Country of Quiet; and trulythis to be more than any singing; for it to be the true weeping ofmultitudes, that did sorrow from the heart, with the grief of this thingthat did be.And I stood utter still, and did draw my breath very even, and looktunto that small form that did be now afar off where it did lie upon themoving Roadway. And I gazed, as that my soul and all my being did haveno power else, even as a man that dies, doth set all his strength to alast movement. And I not to wot that the Master Monstruwacan and the twomaids did hold me up, because they to perceive that I did be dying; forI only to see Mine Own Little One lying afar off upon the moving of theLast Road.
[TRANSITION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE]And the Maid in that moment to come to the place where the Road did passinto the strange and luminous vapour of the Earth-Current, which did lieall about the base of the Dome; and the vapour to be only as a faintshining smoke, scarce seen, yet to be enough to give something ofuncertainty to the Dead, when that they did have past inward of it.And I stared, with all that did be left of my strength; for Mine Own tobe gone utter and forever in but a little minute. And the uncertainty ofthe luminous vapour did cling about her, and to make her to seem unrealto my gaze; for the vapour did be in constant movement, and to give aseeming of shifting to and fro of all that did be in it.And behold! as I did stare, with my dreadful pain, there did be sudden a
[EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][FLASHBACK][TRANSITION][HORROR]strange hoarse noise from the nearer Millions. And lo! in an instantthere came a mighty Shout out of all that Country; and the shout did bemade again, and did grow into a mighty hoarse roaring from the Millions,so that all that great Country did be filled with the monstrous sound.And, in verity, I to have seen the thing, likewise; but to have set itto the madness of longing of my heart and to that desperate and dreadfulpain which did make me to be crazed and lost from all sane thinking.
[TRANSITION][SURPRISE][EMOTION][MONSTER]And the thing that I did see, had been that the Maid did seem to move,there upon the Last Road, where she did lie; but indeed, this to haveappeared only to be the stirring of the luminous vapour of theEarth-Current, which did seem to make things shift, as I have told.And lo! I now to see truly that the Maid did move where she was laidafar off upon the Road; and I now to know, and to believe that she didindeed live. And my life came into me with a bounding; yet did my heartseem to be a moment stilled in my breast. And the Master Monstruwacan to
[SURPRISE][ACTION][CONFLICT][DANGER][TRANSITION][METAPHOR]have signed already that the Roadway be stopt, and brought backward; butI to be now upon the Last Road, and did run as a madman, shouting vainlyupon the name of Mine Own. And I to learn afterward that there to havebeen a dreadful peril that all the near Millions to rush toward the LastRoad, and so, mayhap, to have caused the death of many, and to havebeen like to have crusht Mine Own. But this danger to have been eased,because that the Watch Master did act very prompt, and set the greatregiments of his men to keep back the Millions, and did send a signalabroad over all the Country, that there to be calmness, for that theMaid should be succoured. And alway, whilst this to be, I did runstaggering most strangely upward of the Last Road; and surely that greatroof did ring and boom with the constant and mighty shoutings of theMillions.
And there did run others also along the Road, to my back; but I to havebeen the first, and to make a good speed, though I did stagger and rockso strange upon my feet; and the Road alway to be moving backward underme; and so I to be come wonderful soon unto where the Maid did be. Andshe to be upon her back, and to have pusht the Garment from her face,and did be lying with her eyes open, and a look of gentle wondermentupon her dear face. And she then to see me, and her eyes did smile atme, very glad and quiet; for there to be yet an utter weakness upon her.And lo! I came with a falling beside her, and I gat upon my knees and
upon my hands, and my heart did shake my lips to dry whisperings. Andshe to look weak and steadfast unto me, and I to look forever at her;and I did alway try to say things unto her; but my mouth to refuse me.And understanding did come into her, as a light; and she to know in thatinstant that she to be truly come into the Mighty Pyramid, and I to havegat her there somewise; and she to wake sudden in her body, and set herhands forth all a-trembling from the Garment, and in dreadful trouble.And I to see then that the blood did go from me, constant; and the Maidto have perceived this thing, so that she was waked the more proper in amoment from her death-swoon.
[CONFLICT][SURPRISE][EMOTION][MONSTER]And surely, I did bleed very dreadful; for all my wounds did be openedwith my running. And I to have sudden power with my lips, and did sayunto her, very simple, that I loved her. And she to be all in an hazefrom me; and I to know that she to have come likewise unto her knees,and did have my head upon her breast; and there to be an utter shakingof the air with some great sound, and a mighty spiritual stirring of theaether of the world.And there to be then the voice of the Master Monstruwacan very dull inmine ears; and the low voice of the Master Doctor; but I never to hearwhat they did be saying; and did know only that Mine Own Maid did live;and I not to mean to die, but to fight unto living. And even whilst that
I made this resolving, I was gone into an utter blackness.XVIITHE LOVE DAYSNow, when that I gat back unto life, I to know that I went upward in theLift, and did be upon that same bed, where I to think I never to need abed any more, neither to come upward again from out of the Country ofSilence.And I to know vague and strange, that there rose up from out of themighty depths of the world, the deep thunder of the Underground Organs,and did sound as that they made a strange and utter distant music beyonddeath; and there to go alway a rolling chaunting, as that multitudes didsing beyond far mountains, and the sound to be somewhiles as afar-blowing wind, low in the Deep; and again to come clear, and to bethat great olden melody of the Song of Honour. And I knew, as in adream, that the Millions in that deep Country made an Honour and aRejoicing over this Wonder of Joy which did be come. But yet all to be
[SURPRISE][EMOTION][FLASHBACK]faint and half hid from me, and mine eyes to be as that they had nopower to open, and I to seem to be lifting alway upon strange waters ofunrealness. And there to be sweet and lovely odours, and these to be ofreality, and to come from the great Fields, where the flowers did alwayto grow about the passage ways of the Lifts; for the Lift even then tobe going upward through the great miles.And mayhap I moved a little; for there came the voice of the MasterDoctor low and gentle to me; and bid me rest; for that all did be wellwith the Maid. And surely, afterward, I did be gone into an haze, andthere to be then a seeming of days in which I half to live and half tosleep, and to wonder without trouble whether I did be dead.
[TRANSITION][GHOST]And then there to come days when I lay very quiet, and had no thought ofaught; and the Master Doctor oft to bend over me in this hour and thathour, and to look keen into my face. And in the end, after strangespaces, there bent over me another, and there lookt down upon me thedear and lovely face of Mine Own, and the eyes did speak love into mysoul; yet did she be calm and husht. And I to begin again to live in mybody, and I made, mayhap, a little fumbling with my hands; for she totake and to hold them; and life to come from her to me; and she to beever wordless and gentle; and contentment to grow in me, and presently anatural slumber.And there came a day when I did be let rise, and they that tended me,carried me to one of the Quiet Gardens of the Pyramid; and they set methere, and did seem to leave me alone. And there came One then around a
[EMOTION][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT]bush, and lookt at me a moment, as with an half shyness; only that thelove that did shine in her eyes, made the shyness to be a little thing.And, truly, I knew that it did be Mine Own Maid; but I never before tohave seen Naani drest pretty as a maid. And I lookt to her, and knewthat she did be more dainty than even I to have known. And sudden I madethat I rise to come unto her; but she to run quick to me, that she stopme of this natural foolishness; and she then to sit beside me, and totake my head against her breast, and she not to deny me her lips; but tobe both a maid and a mother to me in the same moment.
[TRANSITION]And afterward, she had me to be very still; and we to sit there in anutter dumb happiness, until they that did attend me, were come again.And the Master of the Doctors did be with them, and I to see that therewent something of satisfaction in his face.And after that day I saw Mine Own Maid every day; and I gat better untohealth with a wondrous quickness; for Love did mend me. And soon I didbe let go downward unto the Fields; but yet to go by private ways,because that the Multitudes should be like to follow me alway; and I toneed to be quiet.
[EMOTION]And the Maid to be with me; for the Master Monstruwacan and the Masterof the Doctors did agree upon this matter, and had an Officer ofMarriage to wed us; and we to be married very quiet and simple; for Iyet to be over-weak for the Public Marriage, which we to have later;when, truly, the Millions made us a Guard of Honour eight miles high,from the top unto the bottom of the Mighty Pyramid. But this to havebeen later, as I do tell, and did be a Ceremonial of the Peoples,because that they not to be denied that they give me an Honour.And surely the Maid to be with me alway, and did be now my wife, and mystrength to come alway upon me, and Mine Own to grow again unto aperfect health. And, in verity, we did be now in the Love Days which dobe the most beauteous, if that the Love to be True.
[EMOTION]And we did wander through the mighty Fields at our will, and walkt inthe Love Paths of the Fields, which did be alway anear to those placeswhere did be the villages. And I to hide our name, lest we to be besetby any, out of natural curiousness and kindliness; for we to need to beutter together and quiet.And we to chose those places for our slumber where beauty of flowers didbe most wondrous; and we to carry somewhat of food with us; but also toeat when we came unto the villages which did be here and there in theFields, which were truly so huge as Countries. And Mine Own did makegood her promise an hundred times, as you shall say, and did prepare mea great and hearty meal; and did tease me utter that I did be a glutton,as I did eat, and kist me, lest that I have ever a chance to say aughtin mine own defence. And truly, she did be all that my heart and my
[FLASHBACK][HAUNTED HOUSE]spirit did desire; and she to have companioned me with Love, and to haveentered my spirit into Joy.And once we to go downward unto the Country of Silence; but not to stayvery long at that time; because that my Memory did return upon me. Yetin the after time, we to wander there oft with Memory, and Holiness ofgreat Thinkings, and with Love which doth hold all.And as we to leave that Country, I to tell Mine Own how that when shehad been suspend of her life by the Horrid Force of the House, I to haveminded me with a dreadful pain that I never to have waked to discoverher kissing me when that I did sleep. And surely Mine Own Dear One did
blush most lovely, and had never known that I did be aware of her sweetnaughtiness; and she then to have all thought for mine agony, when thatshe did be dead, ere the Vapour of life of the Earth-Force did set herspirit free of the Silence.And she to come unto me in dear understanding.And she then to tell me that the Doctors to say that she had been, as itwere, stunned and froze of the Spirit, and all her Being and Lifesuspend; and the great life-force of the Earth-Current to have waked herspirit, and her body then to live and her blood to flow proper again.And the Doctors had talkt much and searched much of late in the oldenRecords of their Work; and they to have found somewhat of one suchhappening in the olden time; but truly, naught such to have been everthrough a mighty age of years.
And whilst that we to wander and to rest in the Fields, I oft to tellMine Own of this matter and that matter; and I to know that she hadlearned somewhat of odd things, ere I did be come to health; but notovermuch; for she also to have been utter alack, as you shall think; andto have come from her bed, when that I did lie so still; for the MasterDoctor to have ordained this, because he to fear that I to be goingtruly to die, if that he not to do somewhat to awaken my spirit. And inverity, you shall think upon the deepness of my Love as I to know thatshe did have held my hands so brave and gentle, whilst that she to havescarce power to her feet. And I to say a little holy praise of Mine Own.And so do I come to mine ending; and have but one more thing that Itell. And this to happen a while later; after that Mine Own and I had
[CONTEXT][FLASHBACK]gone through the second marriage which did be the Public Marriage. Forit did be, that one day My Wife, that did be Mine Own, did take me witha sweet cunning unto the Hall of Honour. And surely, when I was comethere, I to see that many of the Peoples did be in that great Hall, anddid stand about in a silence; yet as that they had no meaning to doaught; but yet to be that they did wait upon somewhat.And My Wife did go forward with me unto the centre place of the Hall;and sudden I saw why that she did bring me so cunning sweet; for theredid stand in the midst of the Hall of Honour, in the Place of Honour, aStatue of a man in broken armour, that did carry a maid forever.
[DEATH]And I did be dumb; and how of this Age shall you to know the Honour thatthis to mean in that; for it did be an Honour that was given only to theGreat Dead; and I to be but a young man, and did be so utter far offfrom greatness; save that I to love with all my heart and with all myspirit, and therefore death to be but a little thing before love. Andyou to know how Love doth make sweet and brave the heart; and to haveunderstanding with me in my humbleness and my wonder and my naturalpride that there did any so think to honour me.And Mine Own did be weeping with joy and honest pride of her man, besideme. And there to be an utter silence of dear sympathy in all the greatHall of Honour. And they that did be there, to let me go in quietness,
[PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][RELIEF][TRANSITION]with Mine Own, which did be a lovely thing of understanding.And I to go loving and thoughtful with Mine Own Wife; and she to be verynigh to me.And I to have gained Honour; yet to have learned that Honour doth be butas the ash of Life, if that you not to have Love. And I to have Love.
And to have Love is to have all; for that which doth be _truly_ LOVEdoth mother Honour and Faithfulness; and they three to build the Houseof Joy.End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Night Land, by William Hope Hodgson*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NIGHT LAND ******** This file should be named 10662.txt or 10662.zip *****This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/6/6/10662/
Produced by Suzanne Shell, Maria Khomenko and PG Distributed ProofreadersUpdated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase [DIALOGUE]"ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  [DIALOGUE]"Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ([DIALOGUE]"the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase [DIALOGUE]"Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase [DIALOGUE]"ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase [DIALOGUE]"Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.
1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than[DIALOGUE][DIALOGUE]"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
[ACTION]     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, [DIALOGUE]"Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.
- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
[SETTING]Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain[DIALOGUE]"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
[CONFLICT][PROBLEM]is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS," WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.
Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.
Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted athttp://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://pglaf.orgFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.orgSection 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes aconsiderable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://pglaf.orgWhile we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donateSection 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed ProjectGutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.
Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarilykeep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.
[TRANSITION]Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook'seBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,compressed (zipped), HTML and others.Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take overthe old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receivingnew filenames and etext numbers.
Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want to
download any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regularsearch system you may utilize the following addresses and justdownload by the etext year.     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, arefiled in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer part
of the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which isidentical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of singledigits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  Forexample an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234
or filename 24689 would be found at:     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689An alternative method of locating eBooks:     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALL
