[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Lost Stradivarius, by John Meade FalknerThis eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away orre-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.netTitle: The Lost StradivariusAuthor: John Meade FalknerRelease Date: November 21, 2004  [eBook #14107]Language: English***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LOST STRADIVARIUS***E-text prepared by Suzanne Shell, Melissa Er-Raqabi, and the ProjectGutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading TeamTHE LOST STRADIVARIUSbyJ. MEADE FALKNER
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CHARACTER]1895Penguin BooksHarmondsworth Middlesex, England245 Fifth Avenue, New York, U.S.A.THE AUTHORJohn Meade Falkner was a remarkable character, as he was not only ascholar and a writer, but a captain of industry as well. Born in 1858,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION]the son of a clergyman in Wiltshire, he was educated at Marlborough andHertford College, Oxford. On leaving the university, he became tutor tothe sons of Sir Andrew Noble, then vice-chairman of theArmstrong-Whitworth Company; and his ability so much impressed hisemployer that in 1885 he was offered a post in the firm. Withoutconnections or influence in industrial circles, and solely by hisintellect, he rose to be a director in 1901, and finally, in 1915,chairman of this enormous business. He was actually chairman during theimportant years 1915-1920, and remained a director until 1926.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]His intellectual energy was so great that throughout his life he foundtime for scholarship as well as business. He travelled for his firm inEurope and South America; and in the intervals of negotiating withforeign governments studied manuscripts wherever he found a library. Hisresearches in the Vatican Library were of special importance, and inconnection with them he received a gold medal from the Pope; he was alsodecorated by the Italian, Turkish and Japanese governments.His scholastic interests included archæology, folklore, palæography,mediæval history, architecture and church music; and he was a collectorof missals. Towards the end of his life he was made an Honorary Fellow
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]of Hertford College, Oxford, Honorary Reader in Palæography to DurhamUniversity, and Honorary Librarian to the [CHAPTER]Chapter Library of DurhamCathedral, which he left one of the best cathedral libraries in Europe.He died at Durham in 1932.Apart from _The Lost Stradivarius_, Falkner was the author of two othernovels, _The Nebuly Coat_ (1903--also published in Penguin Books) and_Moonfleet_ (1898). He also wrote a History of Oxfordshire, handbooks tothat county and to Berkshire, historical short stories, and somemediævalist verse.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]THE LOST STRADIVARIUS  Letter from MISS SOPHIA MALTRAVERS  to her Nephew, SIR EDWARD MALTRAVERS,  then a Student at Christ Church, Oxford.  13 Pauncefort Buildings, Bath,  Oct. 21, 1867.  MY DEAR EDWARD,  It was your late father's dying request that certain events which  occurred in his last years should be communicated to you on your coming  of age. I have reduced them to writing, partly from my own recollection,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DEATH][CHARACTERIZATION][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK][EMOTION][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT]  which is, alas! still too vivid, and partly with the aid of notes taken  at the time of my brother's death. As you are now of full age, I submit  the narrative to you. Much of it has necessarily been exceedingly  painful to me to write, but at the same time I feel it is better that  you should hear the truth from me than garbled stories from others who  did not love your father as I did.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CHARACTER][DEATH][METAPHOR][CHARACTERIZATION][FLASHBACK][HORROR]  Your loving Aunt,  SOPHIA MALTRAVERSTo Sir Edward Maltravers, Bart.  [DIALOGUE]"A tale out of season is as music in mourning."  --ECCLESIASTICUS xxii. 6.MISS SOPHIA MALTRAVERS' STORY[CHAPTER]CHAPTER IYour father, John Maltravers, was born in 1820 at Worth, and succeededhis father and mine, who died when we were still young children. John
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][ACTION]was sent to Eton in due course, and in 1839, when he was nineteen yearsof age, it was determined that he should go to Oxford. It was intendedat first to enter him at Christ Church; but Dr. Sarsdell, who visited usat Worth in the summer of 1839, persuaded Mr. Thoresby, our guardian, tosend him instead to Magdalen Hall. Dr. Sarsdell was himself Principal ofthat institution, and represented that John, who then exhibited somesymptoms of delicacy, would meet with more personal attention under hiscare than he could hope to do in so large a college as Christ Church.Mr. Thoresby, ever solicitous for his ward's welfare, readily waivedother considerations in favour of an arrangement which he consideredconducive to John's health, and he was accordingly matriculated atMagdalen Hall in the autumn of 1839.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Dr. Sarsdell had not been unmindful of his promise to look after mybrother, and had secured him an excellent first-floor sitting-room, witha bedroom adjoining, having an aspect towards New College Lane.I shall pass over the first two years of my brother's residence atOxford, because they have nothing to do with the present story. Theywere spent, no doubt, in the ordinary routine of work and recreationcommon in Oxford at that period.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][RELIEF]From his earliest boyhood he had been passionately devoted to music,and had attained a considerable proficiency on the violin. In the autumnterm of 1841 he made the acquaintance of Mr. William Gaskell, a verytalented student at New College, and also a more than tolerablemusician. The practice of music was then very much less common at Oxfordthan it has since become, and there were none of those societiesexisting which now do so much to promote its study among undergraduates.It was therefore a cause of much gratification to the two young men, andit afterwards became a strong bond of friendship, to discover that onewas as devoted to the pianoforte as was the other to the violin. Mr.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Gaskell, though in easy circumstances, had not a pianoforte in hisrooms, and was pleased to use a fine instrument by D'Almaine that Johnhad that term received as a birthday present from his guardian.From that time the two students were thrown much together, and in theautumn term of 1841 and Easter term of 1842 practised a variety of musicin John's rooms, he taking the violin part and Mr. Gaskell that for thepianoforte.It was, I think, in March 1842 that John purchased for his rooms a pieceof furniture which was destined afterwards to play no unimportant partin the story I am narrating. This was a very large and low wicker chairof a form then coming into fashion in Oxford, and since, I am told,become a familiar object of most college rooms. It was cushioned with agaudy pattern of chintz, and bought for new of an upholsterer at thebottom of the High Street.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Mr. Gaskell was taken by his uncle to spend Easter in Rome, andobtaining special leave from his college to prolong his travels; did notreturn to Oxford till three weeks of the summer term were passed and Maywas well advanced. So impatient was he to see his friend that he wouldnot let even the first evening of his return pass without coming roundto John's rooms. The two young men sat without lights until the nightwas late; and Mr. Gaskell had much to narrate of his travels, and spokespecially of the beautiful music which he had heard at Easter in theRoman churches. He had also had lessons on the piano from a celebratedprofessor of the Italian style, but seemed to have been particularlydelighted with the music of the seventeenth-century composers, of whoseworks he had brought back some specimens set for piano and violin.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]It was past eleven o'clock when Mr. Gaskell left to return to NewCollege; but the night was unusually warm, with a moon near the full,and John sat for some time in a cushioned window-seat before the opensash thinking over what he had heard about the music of Italy. Feelingstill disinclined for sleep, he lit a single candle and began to turnover some of the musical works which Mr. Gaskell had left on the table.His attention was especially attracted to an oblong book, bound insoiled vellum, with a coat of arms stamped in gilt upon the side. It wasa manuscript copy of some early suites by Graziani for violin andharpsichord, and was apparently written at Naples in the year 1744, manyyears after the death of that composer. Though the ink was yellow and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]faded, the transcript had been accurately made, and could be read withtolerable comfort by an advanced musician in spite of the antiquatednotation.Perhaps by accident, or perhaps by some mysterious direction which ourminds are incapable of appreciating, his eye was arrested by a suite offour movements with a _basso continuo_, or figured bass, for theharpsichord. The other suites in the book were only distinguished bynumbers, but this one the composer had dignified with the name of[DIALOGUE]"l'Areopagita." Almost mechanically John put the book on hismusic-stand, took his violin from its case, and after a moment's tuningstood up and played the first movement, a lively _Coranto_. The light ofthe single candle burning on the table was scarcely sufficient toillumine the page; the shadows hung in the creases of the leaves, whichhad grown into those wavy folds sometimes observable in books made ofthick paper and remaining long shut; and it was with difficulty that hecould read what he was playing. But he felt the strange impulse of the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]old-world music urging him forward, and did not even pause to light thecandles which stood ready in their sconces on either side of the desk.The _Coranto_ was followed by a _Sarabanda_, and the _Sarabanda_ by a_Gagliarda_. My brother stood playing, with his face turned to thewindow, with the room and the large wicker chair of which I have spokenbehind him. The _Gagliarda_ began with a bold and lively air, and as heplayed the opening bars, he heard behind him a creaking of the wickerchair. The sound was a perfectly familiar one--as of some person placing
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]a hand on either arm of the chair preparatory to lowering himself intoit, followed by another as of the same person being leisurely seated.But for the tones of the violin, all was silent, and the creaking of thechair was strangely distinct. The illusion was so complete that mybrother stopped playing suddenly, and turned round expecting that somelate friend of his had slipped in unawares, being attracted by the soundof the violin, or that Mr. Gaskell himself had returned. With thecessation of the music an absolute stillness fell upon all; the light ofthe single candle scarcely reached the darker corners of the room, butfell directly on the wicker chair and showed it to be perfectly empty.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Half amused, half vexed with himself at having without reasoninterrupted his music, my brother returned to the _Gagliarda_; but someimpulse induced him to light the candles in the sconces, which gave anillumination more adequate to the occasion. The _Gagliarda_ and the lastmovement, a _Minuetto_, were finished, and John closed the book,intending, as it was now late, to seek his bed. As he shut the pages acreaking of the wicker chair again attracted his attention, and he hearddistinctly sounds such as would be made by a person raising himself froma sitting posture. This time, being less surprised, he could more aptlyconsider the probable causes of such a circumstance, and easily arrivedat the conclusion that there must be in the wicker chair osiersresponsive to certain notes of the violin, as panes of glass in churchwindows are observed to vibrate in sympathy with certain tones of theorgan. But while this argument approved itself to his reason, his
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR]imagination was but half convinced; and he could not but be impressedwith the fact that the second creaking of the chair had been coincidentwith his shutting the music-book; and, unconsciously, pictured tohimself some strange visitor waiting until the termination of the music,and then taking his departure.His conjectures did not, however, either rob him of sleep or evendisturb it with dreams, and he woke the next morning with a cooler mindand one less inclined to fantastic imagination. If the strange episodeof the previous evening had not entirely vanished from his mind, itseemed at least fully accounted for by the acoustic explanation to whichI have alluded above. Although he saw Mr. Gaskell in the course of themorning, he did not think it necessary to mention to him so trivial acircumstance, but made with him an appointment to sup together in hisown rooms that evening, and to amuse themselves afterwards by essayingsome of the Italian music.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]It was shortly after nine that night when, supper being finished, Mr.Gaskell seated himself at the piano and John tuned his violin. Theevening was closing in; there had been heavy thunder-rain in theafternoon, and the moist air hung now heavy and steaming, while acrossit there throbbed the distant vibrations of the tenor bell at ChristChurch. It was tolling the customary 101 strokes, which are rung everynight in term-time as a signal for closing the college gates. The twoyoung men enjoyed themselves for some while, playing first a suite byCesti, and then two early sonatas by Buononcini. Both of them were
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]sufficiently expert musicians to make reading at sight a pleasure ratherthan an effort; and Mr. Gaskell especially was well versed in the theoryof music, and in the correct rendering of the _basso continuo_. Afterthe Buononcini Mr. Gaskell took up the oblong copy of Graziani, andturning over its leaves, proposed that they should play the same suitewhich John had performed by himself the previous evening. His selectionwas apparently perfectly fortuitous, as my brother had purposelyrefrained from directing his attention in any way to that piece ofmusic. They played the _Coranto_ and the _Sarabanda_, and in thesingular fascination of the music John had entirely forgotten theepisode of the previous evening, when, as the bold air of the_Gagliarda_ commenced, he suddenly became aware of the same strangecreaking of the wicker chair that he had noticed on the first occasion.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]The sound was identical, and so exact was its resemblance to that of aperson sitting down that he stared at the chair, almost wondering thatit still appeared empty. Beyond turning his head sharply for a moment tolook round, Mr. Gaskell took no notice of the sound; and my brother,ashamed to betray any foolish interest or excitement, continued the_Gagliarda_, with its repeat. At its conclusion Mr. Gaskell stoppedbefore proceeding to the minuet, and turning the stool on which he wassitting round towards the room, observed, [DIALOGUE]"How very strange,Johnnie,"--for these young men were on terms of sufficient intimacy toaddress each other in a familiar style,--"How very strange! I thought Iheard some one sit down in that chair when we began the _Gagliarda_. I
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]looked round quite expecting to see some one had come in. Did you hearnothing?[DIALOGUE]""It was only the chair creaking,[DIALOGUE]" my brother answered, feigning anindifference which he scarcely felt. "Certain parts of the wicker-workseem to be in accord with musical notes and respond to them; let uscontinue with the _Minuetto_."Thus they finished the suite, Mr. Gaskell demanding a repetition of the_Gagliarda_, with the air of which he was much pleased. As the clocks
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]had already struck eleven, they determined not to play more that night;and Mr. Gaskell rose, blew out the sconces, shut the piano, and put themusic aside. My brother has often assured me that he was quite preparedfor what followed, and had been almost expecting it; for as the bookswere put away, a creaking of the wicker chair was audible, exactlysimilar to that which he had heard when he stopped playing on theprevious night. There was a moment's silence; the young men lookedinvoluntarily at one another, and then Mr. Gaskell said, [DIALOGUE]"I cannotunderstand the creaking of that chair; it has never done so before, withall the music we have played. I am perhaps imaginative and excited withthe fine airs we have heard to-night, but I have an impression that Icannot dispel that something has been sitting listening to us all thistime, and that now when the concert is ended it has got up and gone."There was a spirit of raillery in his words, but his tone was not solight as it would ordinarily have been, and he was evidently ill atease.[DIALOGUE]"Let us try the _Gagliarda_ again," said my brother; [DIALOGUE]"it is thevibration of the opening notes which affects the wicker-work, and weshall see if the noise is repeated." But Mr. Gaskell excused himselffrom trying the experiment, and after some desultory conversation, towhich it was evident that neither was giving any serious attention, hetook his leave and returned to New College.[CHAPTER]CHAPTER III shall not weary you, my dear Edward, by recounting similar experienceswhich occurred on nearly every occasion that the young men met in theevenings for music. The repetition of the phenomenon had accustomed them
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]to expect it. Both professed to be quite satisfied that it was to beattributed to acoustical affinities of vibration between the wicker-workand certain of the piano wires, and indeed this seemed the onlyexplanation possible. But, at the same time, the resemblance of thenoises to those caused by a person sitting down in or rising from achair was so marked, that even their frequent recurrence never failed tomake a strange impression on them. They felt a reluctance to mention thematter to their friends, partly from a fear of being themselves laughedat, and partly to spare from ridicule a circumstance to which eachperhaps, in spite of himself, attached some degree of importance.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONTEXT][FLASHBACK]Experience soon convinced them that the first noise as of one sittingdown never occurred unless the _Gagliarda_ of the [DIALOGUE][DIALOGUE]"Areopagita" wasplayed, and that this noise being once heard, the second only followedit when they ceased playing for the evening. They met every night,sitting later with the lengthening summer evenings, and every night,as by some tacit understanding, played the "Areopagita" suite beforeparting. At the opening bars of the _Gagliarda_ the creaking of thechair occurred spontaneously with the utmost regularity. They seldomspoke even to one another of the subject; but one night, when John wasputting away his violin after a long evening's music without havingplayed the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita," Mr. Gaskell, who had risen from the pianoforte,sat down again as by a sudden impulse and said--"Johnnie, do not put away your violin yet. It is near twelve o'clock
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]and I shall get shut out, but I cannot stop to-night without playing the_Gagliarda_. Suppose that all our theories of vibration and affinity arewrong, suppose that there really comes here night by night some strangevisitant to hear us, some poor creature whose heart is bound up in thattune; would it not be unkind to send him away without the hearing ofthat piece which he seems most to relish? Let us not be ill-mannered,but humour his whim; let us play the _Gagliarda_."They played it with more vigour and precision than usual, and the nowcustomary sound of one taking his seat at once ensued. It was that night
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]that my brother, looking steadfastly at the chair, saw, or thought hesaw, there some slight obscuration, some penumbra, mist, or subtlevapour which, as he gazed, seemed to struggle to take human form. Heceased playing for a moment and rubbed his eyes, but as he did so alldimness vanished and he saw the chair perfectly empty. The pianiststopped also at the cessation of the violin, and asked what ailed him.[DIALOGUE]"It is only that my eyes were dim," he answered.[DIALOGUE]"We have had enough for to-night," said Mr. Gaskell; [DIALOGUE]"let us stop.I shall be locked out." He shut the piano, and as he did so the clockin New College tower struck twelve. He left the room running, but waslate enough at his college door to be reported, admonished with a fineagainst such late hours, and confined for a week to college; for beingout after midnight was considered, at that time at least, a somewhatserious offence.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]Thus for some days the musical practice was compulsorily intermitted,but resumed on the first evening after Mr. Gaskell's term of confinementwas expired. After they had performed several suites of Graziani, andfinished as usual with the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita," Mr. Gaskell sat for a timesilent at the instrument, as though thinking with himself, and thensaid--"I cannot say how deeply this old-fashioned music affects me. Some wouldtry to persuade us that these suites, of which the airs bear the namesof different dances, were always written rather as a musical essay andfor purposes of performance than for persons to dance to, as their nameswould more naturally imply. But I think these critics are wrong at leastin some instances. It is to me impossible to believe that such a melody,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][FLASHBACK][METAPHOR]for instance, as the _Giga_ of Corelli which we have played, was notwritten for actual purposes of dancing. One can almost hear the beatof feet upon the floor, and I imagine that in the time of Corelli thepractice of dancing, while not a whit inferior in grace, had more of thetripudistic or beating character than is now esteemed consistent with acorrect ball-room performance. The _Gagliarda_ too, which we play now soconstantly, possesses a singular power of assisting the imagination topicture or reproduce such scenes as those which it no doubt formerlyenlivened. I know not why, but it is constantly identified in my mindwith some revel which I have perhaps seen in a picture, where severalcouples are dancing a licentious measure in a long room lit by a numberof silver sconces of the debased model common at the end of theseventeenth century. It is probably a reminiscence of my late excursion
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR][FLASHBACK]that gives to these dancers in my fancy the olive skin, dark hair, andbright eyes of the Italian type; and they wear dresses of exceedinglyrich fabric and elaborate design. Imagination is whimsical enough topaint for me the character of the room itself, as having an arcade ofarches running down one side alone, of the fantastic and paganisedGothic of the Renaissance. At the end is a gallery or balcony for themusicians, which on its coved front has a florid coat of arms of foreignheraldry. The shield bears, on a field _or_, a cherub's head blowing onthree lilies--a blazon I have no doubt seen somewhere in my travels,though I cannot recollect where. This scene, I say, is so nearlyconnected in my brain with the _Gagliarda_, that scarcely are its firstnotes sounded ere it presents itself to my eyes with a vividness whichincreases every day. The couples advance, set, and recede, using free
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][HORROR]and licentious gestures which my imagination should be ashamed torecall. Amongst so many foreigners, fancy pictures, I know not in theleast why, the presence of a young man of an English type of face, whosefeatures, however, always elude my mind's attempt to fix them. I thinkthat the opening subject of this _Gagliarda_ is a superior compositionto the rest of it, for it is only during the first sixteen bars that thevision of bygone revelry presents itself to me. With the last note ofthe sixteenth bar a veil is drawn suddenly across the scene, and with asense almost of some catastrophe it vanishes. This I attribute to the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]fact that the second subject must be inferior in conception to thefirst, and by some sense of incongruity destroys the fabric which thefascination of the preceding one built up."My brother, though he had listened with interest to what Mr. Gaskell hadsaid, did not reply, and the subject was allowed to drop.[CHAPTER]CHAPTER IIIIt was in the same summer of 1842, and near the middle of June, that mybrother John wrote inviting me to come to Oxford for the Commemorationfestivities. I had been spending some weeks with Mrs. Temple, a distantcousin of ours, at their house of Royston in Derbyshire, and John wasdesirous that Mrs. Temple should come up to Oxford and chaperoneher daughter Constance and myself at the balls and various otherentertainments which take place at the close of the summer term. Owing
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CHARACTER]to Royston being some two hundred miles from Worth Maltravers, ourfamilies had hitherto seen little of one another, but during my presentvisit I had learned to love Mrs. Temple, a lady of singular sweetness ofdisposition, and had contracted a devoted attachment to her daughterConstance. Constance Temple was then eighteen years of age, and to greatbeauty united such mental graces and excellent traits of character asmust ever appear to reasoning persons more enduringly valuable than eventhe highest personal attractions. She was well read and witty, and hadbeen trained in those principles of true religion which she afterwardsfollowed with devoted consistency in the self-sacrifice and resignedpiety of her too short life. In person, I may remind you, my dearEdward, since death removed her ere you were of years to appreciateeither her appearance or her qualities, she was tall, with a somewhatlong and oval face, with brown hair and eyes.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Mrs. Temple readily accepted Sir John Maltravers' invitation. She hadnever seen Oxford herself, and was pleased to afford us the pleasure ofso delightful an excursion. John had secured convenient rooms for usabove the shop of a well-known printseller in High Street, and wearrived in Oxford on Friday evening, June 18, 1842. I shall not dilateto you on the various Commemoration festivities, which have probablyaltered little since those days, and with which you are familiar.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][TRANSITION]Suffice it to say that my brother had secured us admission to everyentertainment, and that we enjoyed our visit as only youth with its keensensibilities and uncloyed pleasures can. I could not help observingthat John was very much struck by the attractions of Miss ConstanceTemple, and that she for her part, while exhibiting no unbecomingforwardness, certainly betrayed no aversion to him. I was greatlypleased both with my own powers of observation which had enabled me todiscover so important a fact, and also with the circumstance itself.To a romantic girl of nineteen it appeared high time that a brother oftwenty-two should be at least preparing some matrimonial project; and myfriend was so good and beautiful that it seemed impossible that I shouldever obtain a more lovable sister or my brother a better wife. Mrs.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CHARACTER]Temple could not refuse her sanction to such a scheme; for while theirmental qualities seemed eminently compatible, John was in his own rightmaster of Worth Maltravers, and her daughter sole heiress of the Roystonestates.The Commemoration festivities terminated on Wednesday night with a grandball at the Music-Room in Holywell Street. This was given by a Lodge ofUniversity Freemasons, and John was there with Mr. Gaskell--whoseacquaintance we had made with much gratification--both wearing blue silkscarves and small white aprons. They introduced us to many other oftheir friends similarly adorned, and these important and mysteriousinsignia sat not amiss with their youthful figures and boyish faces.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]After a long and pleasurable programme, it was decided that we shouldprolong our visit till the next evening, leaving Oxford at half-pastten o'clock at night and driving to Didcot, there to join the mail forthe west. We rose late the next morning and spent the day rambling amongthe old colleges and gardens of the most beautiful of English cities.At seven o'clock we dined together for the last time at our lodgingsin High Street, and my brother proposed that before parting we shouldenjoy the fine evening in the gardens of St. John's College. This was
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]at once agreed to, and we proceeded thither, John walking on in frontwith Constance and Mrs. Temple, and I following with Mr. Gaskell. Mycompanion explained that these gardens were esteemed the most beautifulin the University, but that under ordinary circumstances it was notpermitted to strangers to walk there of an evening. Here he quoted someLatin about [DIALOGUE]"aurum per medios ire satellites," which I smilingly made asif I understood, and did indeed gather from it that John had bribed theporter to admit us. It was a warm and very still night, without a moon,but with enough of fading light to show the outlines of the gardenfront. This long low line of buildings built in Charles I's reign looked
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE]so exquisitely beautiful that I shall never forget it, though I have notsince seen its oriel windows and creeper-covered walls. There was a veryheavy dew on the broad lawn, and we walked at first only on the paths.No one spoke, for we were oppressed by the very beauty of the scene, andby the sadness which an imminent parting from friends and from so sweeta place combined to cause. John had been silent and depressed the wholeday, nor did Mr. Gaskell himself seem inclined to conversation.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE]Constance and my brother fell a little way behind, and Mr. Gaskell askedme to cross the lawn if I was not afraid of the dew, that I might seethe garden front to better advantage from the corner. Mrs. Temple waitedfor us on the path, not wishing to wet her feet. Mr. Gaskell pointed outthe beauties of the perspective as seen from his vantage-point, and wewere fortunate in hearing the sweet descant of nightingales for whichthis garden has ever been famous. As we stood silent and listening, acandle was lit in a small oriel at the end, and the light showing thetracery of the window added to the picturesqueness of the scene.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Within an hour we were in a landau driving through the still warm lanesto Didcot. I had seen that Constance's parting with my brother had beentender, and I am not sure that she was not in tears during some part atleast of our drive; but I did not observe her closely, having mythoughts elsewhere.Though we were thus being carried every moment further from the sleepingcity, where I believe that both our hearts were busy, I feel as if I hadbeen a personal witness of the incidents I am about to narrate, so oftenhave I heard them from my brother's lips. The two young men, afterparting with us in the High Street, returned to their respectivecolleges. John reached his rooms shortly before eleven o'clock. He was
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]at once sad and happy--sad at our departure, but happy in a new-foundworld of delight which his admiration for Constance Temple opened tohim. He was, in fact, deeply in love with her, and the full flood of ahitherto unknown passion filled him with an emotion so overwhelming thathis ordinary life seemed transfigured. He moved, as it were, in an ethersuperior to our mortal atmosphere, and a new region of high resolves andnoble possibilities spread itself before his eyes. He slammed his heavyoutside door (called an [DIALOGUE]"oak") to prevent anyone entering and flunghimself into the window-seat. Here he sat for a long time, the sash
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION]thrown up and his head outside, for he was excited and feverish. Hismental exaltation was so great and his thoughts of so absorbing aninterest that he took no notice of time, and only remembered afterwardsthat the scent of a syringa-bush was borne up to him from a littlegarden-patch opposite, and that a bat had circled slowly up and down thelane, until he heard the clocks striking three. At the same time thefaint light of dawn made itself felt almost imperceptibly; the classicstatues on the roof of the schools began to stand out against the whitesky, and a faint glimmer to penetrate the darkened room. It glistened onthe varnished top of his violin-case lying on the table, and on a jug oftoast-and-water placed there by his college servant or scout every nightbefore he left. He drank a glass of this mixture, and was moving towards
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]his bedroom door when a sudden thought struck him. He turned back, tookthe violin from its case, tuned it, and began to play the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita"suite. He was conscious of that mental clearness and vigour which notunfrequently comes with the dawn to those who have sat watching orreading through the night: and his thoughts were exalted by the effectwhich the first consciousness of a deep passion causes in imaginativeminds. He had never played the suite with more power; and the airs,even without the piano part, seemed fraught with a meaning hithertounrealised. As he began the _Gagliarda_ he heard the wicker chair creak;
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]but he had his back towards it, and the sound was now too familiar tohim to cause him even to look round. It was not till he was playingthe repeat that he became aware of a new and overpowering sensation.At first it was a vague feeling, so often experienced by us all, ofnot being alone. He did not stop playing, and in a few seconds theimpression of a presence in the room other than his own became so strongthat he was actually afraid to look round. But in another moment he felt
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CHARACTER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][DANGER][METAPHOR]that at all hazards he must see what or who this presence was. Withoutstopping he partly turned and partly looked over his shoulder. Thesilver light of early morning was filling the room, making the variousobjects appear of less bright colour than usual, and giving toeverything a pearl-grey neutral tint. In this cold but clear light hesaw seated in the wicker chair the figure of a man.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][DANGER][FLASHBACK][HORROR]In the first violent shock of so terrifying a discovery, he could notappreciate such details as those of features, dress, or appearance. Hewas merely conscious that with him, in a locked room of which he knewhimself to be the only human inmate, there sat something which bore ahuman form. He looked at it for a moment with a hope, which he feltto be vain, that it might vanish and prove a phantom of his excitedimagination, but still it sat there. Then my brother put down hisviolin, and he used to assure me that a horror overwhelmed him of anintensity which he had previously believed impossible. Whether the image
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][DEATH]which he saw was subjective or objective, I cannot pretend to say: youwill be in a position to judge for yourself when you have finished thisnarrative. Our limited experience would lead us to believe that it was aphantom conjured up by some unusual condition of his own brain; but weare fain to confess that there certainly do exist in nature phenomenasuch as baffle human reason; and it is possible that, for some hiddenpurposes of Providence, permission may occasionally be granted to thosewho have passed from this life to assume again for a time the form oftheir earthly tabernacle. We must, I say, be content to suspend ourjudgment on such matters; but in this instance the subsequent course ofevents is very difficult to explain, except on the supposition thatthere was then presented to my brother's view the actual bodily form ofone long deceased. The dread which took possession of him was due, hehas more than once told me when analysing his feelings long afterwards,to two predominant causes. Firstly, he felt that mental dislocation
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][SURPRISE][PROBLEM]which accompanies the sudden subversion of preconceived theories,the sudden alteration of long habit, or even the occurrence of anycircumstance beyond the walk of our daily experience. This I haveobserved myself in the perturbing effect which a sudden death, agrievous accident, or in recent years the declaration of war, hasexercised upon all except the most lethargic or the most determinedminds. Secondly, he experienced the profound self-abasement or mentalannihilation caused by the near conception of a being of a superiororder. In the presence of an existence wearing, indeed, the human form,but of attributes widely different from and superior to his own, he feltthe combined reverence and revulsion which even the noblest wild animalsexhibit when brought for the first time face to face with man. The shock
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]was so great that I feel persuaded it exerted an effect on him fromwhich he never wholly recovered.After an interval which seemed to him interminable, though it was onlyof a second's duration, he turned his eyes again to the occupant of thewicker chair. His faculties had so far recovered from the first shockas to enable him to see that the figure was that of a man perhapsthirty-five years of age and still youthful in appearance. The face waslong and oval, the hair brown, and brushed straight off an exceptionallyhigh forehead. His complexion was very pale or bloodless. He was clean
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]shaven, and his finely cut mouth, with compressed lips, wore somethingof a sneering smile. His general expression was unpleasing, and from thefirst my brother felt as by intuition that there was present some malignand wicked influence. His eyes were not visible, as he kept them castdown, resting his head on his hand in the attitude of one listening. Hisface and even his dress were impressed so vividly upon John's mind, thathe never had any difficulty in recalling them to his imagination; and heand I had afterwards an opportunity of verifying them in a remarkablemanner. He wore a long cut-away coat of green cloth with an edge of gold
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]embroidery, and a white satin waistcoat figured with rose-sprigs, afull cravat of rich lace, knee-breeches of buff silk, and stockings ofthe same. His shoes were of polished black leather with heavy silverbuckles, and his costume in general recalled that worn a century ago.As my brother gazed at him, he got up, putting his hands on the armsof the chair to raise himself, and causing the creaking so often heardbefore. The hands forced themselves on my brother's notice: they werevery white, with the long delicate fingers of a musician. He showed a
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]considerable height; and still keeping his eyes on the floor, walkedwith an ordinary gait towards the end of the bookcase at the side of theroom farthest from the window. He reached the bookcase, and then Johnsuddenly lost sight of him. The figure did not fade gradually, but wentout, as it were, like the flame of a suddenly extinguished candle.The room was now filled with the clear light of the summer morning: thewhole vision had lasted but a few seconds, but my brother knew thatthere was no possibility of his having been mistaken, that the mysteryof the creaking chair was solved, that he had seen the man who had comeevening by evening for a month past to listen to the rhythm of the_Gagliarda_. Terribly disturbed, he sat for some time half dreading and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]half expecting a return of the figure; but all remained unchanged: hesaw nothing, nor did he dare to challenge its reappearance by playingagain the _Gagliarda_, which seemed to have so strange an attraction forit. At last, in the full sunlight of a late June morning at Oxford, heheard the steps of early pedestrians on the pavement below his windows,the cry of a milkman, and other sounds which showed the world was awake.It was after six o'clock, and going to his bedroom he flung himself onthe outside of the bed for an hour's troubled slumber.[CHAPTER]CHAPTER IVWhen his servant called him about eight o'clock my brother sent a noteto Mr. Gaskell at New College, begging him to come round to MagdalenHall as soon as might be in the course of the morning. His summons was
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION]at once obeyed, and Mr. Gaskell was with him before he had finishedbreakfast. My brother was still much agitated, and at once told him whathad happened the night before, detailing the various circumstances withminuteness, and not even concealing from him the sentiments which heentertained towards Miss Constance Temple. In narrating the appearancewhich he had seen in the chair, his agitation was still so excessivethat he had difficulty in controlling his voice.Mr. Gaskell heard him with much attention, and did not at once replywhen John had finished his narration. At length he said, "I suppose many
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR][CONFLICT][EMOTION][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][CHARACTERIZATION]friends would think it right to affect, even if they did not feel, anincredulity as to what you have just told me. They might consider itmore prudent to attempt to allay your distress by persuading you thatwhat you have seen has no objective reality, but is merely the phantasmof an excited imagination; that if you had not been in love, had not satup all night, and had not thus overtaxed your physical powers, you wouldhave seen no vision. I shall not argue thus, for I am as certainlyconvinced as of the fact that we sit here, that on all the nights whenwe have played this suite called the 'Areopagita,' there has been someone listening to us, and that you have at length been fortunate orunfortunate enough to see him.[DIALOGUE][DIALOGUE]""Do not say fortunate,[DIALOGUE]" said my brother; "for I feel as though I shallnever recover from last night's shock.""That is likely enough,[DIALOGUE]" Mr. Gaskell answered, coolly; "for as in thehistory of the race or individual, increased culture and a finer mentalsusceptibility necessarily impair the brute courage and powers ofendurance which we note in savages, so any supernatural vision suchas you have seen must be purchased at the cost of physical reaction.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]From the first evening that we played this music, and heard the noisesmimicking so closely the sitting down and rising up of some person, Ihave felt convinced that causes other than those which we usually callnatural were at work, and that we were very near the manifestation ofsome extraordinary phenomenon.[DIALOGUE][DIALOGUE]""I do not quite apprehend your meaning.""I mean this,[DIALOGUE]" he continued, "that this man or spirit of a man has beensitting here night after night, and that we have not been able to seehim, because our minds are dull and obtuse. Last night the elevatingforce of a strong passion, such as that which you have confided to me,combined with the power of fine music, so exalted your mind that youbecame endowed, as it were, with a sixth sense, and suddenly wereenabled to see that which had previously been invisible. To this sixthsense music gives, I believe, the key. We are at present only on the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]threshold of such a knowledge of that art as will enable us to use iteventually as the greatest of all humanising and educational agents.Music will prove a ladder to the loftier regions of thought; indeed Ihave long found for myself that I cannot attain to the highest range ofmy intellectual power except when hearing good music. All poets, andmost writers of prose, will say that their thought is never so exalted,their sense of beauty and proportion never so just, as when they arelistening either to the artificial music made by man, or to some of thegrander tones of nature, such as the roar of a western ocean, or thesighing of wind in a clump of firs. Though I have often felt on suchoccasions on the very verge of some high mental discovery, and thougha hand has been stretched forward as it were to rend the veil, yet ithas never been vouchsafed me to see behind it. This you no doubt were
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONTEXT]allowed in a measure to do last night. You probably played the musicwith a deeper intuition than usual, and this, combined with theexcitement under which you were already labouring, raised you for amoment to the required pitch of mental exaltation.[DIALOGUE][DIALOGUE]""It is true,[DIALOGUE]" John said, "that I never felt the melody so deeply as whenI played it last night.""Just so,[DIALOGUE]" answered his friend; "and there is probably some link betweenthis air and the history of the man whom you saw last night; some fatalpower in it which enables it to exert an attraction on him even afterdeath. For we must remember that the influence of music, though alwayspowerful, is not always for good. We can scarcely doubt that as certain
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]forms of music tend to raise us above the sensuality of the animal, orthe more degrading passion of material gain, and to transport us intothe ether of higher thought, so other forms are directly calculated toawaken in us luxurious emotions, and to whet those sensual appetiteswhich it is the business of a philosopher not indeed to annihilate or tobe ashamed of, but to keep rigidly in check. This possibility of musicto effect evil as well as good I have seen recognised, and very aptlyexpressed in some beautiful verses by Mr. Keble which I have justread:--  [DIALOGUE]"'Cease, stranger, cease those witching notes,      The art of syren choirs;    Hush the seductive voice that floats      Across the trembling wires.  "'Music's ethereal power was given      Not to dissolve our clay,    But draw Promethean beams from heaven      To purge the dross away.'[DIALOGUE][DIALOGUE]""They are fine lines,[DIALOGUE]" said my brother, "but I do not see how you applyyour argument to the present instance.""I mean,[DIALOGUE]" Mr. Gaskell answered, "that I have little doubt that themelody of this _Gagliarda_ has been connected in some manner with thelife of the man you saw last night. It is not unlikely, either, that it
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR][CONTEXT][CHARACTERIZATION]was a favourite air of his whilst in the flesh, or even that it wasplayed by himself or others at the moment of some crisis in his history.It is possible that such connection may be due merely to the innocentpleasure the melody gave him in life; but the nature of the musicitself, and a peculiar effect it has upon my own thoughts, induce me tobelieve that it was associated with some occasion when he either fellinto great sin or when some evil fate, perhaps even death itself,overtook him. You will remember I have told you that this air calls upto my mind a certain scene of Italian revelry in which an Englishmantakes part. It is true that I have never been able to fix his featuresin my mind, nor even to say exactly how he was dressed. Yet now some
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]instinct tells me that it is this very man whom you saw last night. Itis not for us to attempt to pierce the mystery which veils from our eyesthe secrets of an after-death existence; but I can scarcely suppose thata spirit entirely at rest would feel so deeply the power of a certainmelody as to be called back by it to his old haunts like a dog by hismaster's whistle. It is more probable that there is some evil historyconnected with the matter, and this, I think, we ought to consider if itbe possible to unravel.[DIALOGUE]"My brother assenting, he continued, "When this man left you, Johnnie,did he walk to the door?[DIALOGUE]""No; he made for the side wall, and when he reached the end of thebookcase I lost sight of him.[DIALOGUE]"Mr. Gaskell went to the bookcase and looked for a moment at the titlesof the books, as though expecting to see something in them to assisthis inquiries; but finding apparently no clue, he said--"This is the last time we shall meet for three months or more; let usplay the _Gagliarda_ and see if there be any response."My brother at first would not hear of this, showing a lively dread ofchallenging any reappearance of the figure he had seen: indeed he feltthat such an event would probably fling him into a state of seriousphysical disorder. Mr. Gaskell, however, continued to press him,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][TRANSITION]assuring him that the fact of his now being no longer alone shouldlargely allay any fear on his part, and urging that this would be thelast opportunity they would have of playing together for some months.At last, being overborne, my brother took his violin, and Mr. Gaskellseated himself at the pianoforte. John was very agitated, and as hecommenced the _Gagliarda_ his hands trembled so that he could scarcelyplay the air. Mr. Gaskell also exhibited some nervousness, notperforming with his customary correctness. But for the first time the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][TRANSITION]charm failed: no noise accompanied the music, nor did anything of anunusual character occur. They repeated the whole suite, but with asimilar result.Both were surprised, but neither, had any explanation to offer. Mybrother, who at first dreaded intensely a repetition of the vision, wasnow almost disappointed that nothing had occurred; so quickly does themood of man change.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]After some further conversation the young men parted for the LongVacation--John returning to Worth Maltravers and Mr. Gaskell going toLondon, where he was to pass a few days before he proceeded to his homein Westmorland.[CHAPTER]CHAPTER VJohn spent nearly the whole of this summer vacation at Worth Maltravers.He had been anxious to pay a visit to Royston; but the continued andserious illness of Mrs. Temple's sister had called her and Constance toScotland, where they remained until the death of their relative allowedthem to return to Derbyshire in the late autumn. John and I had beenbrought up together from childhood. When he was at Eton we had always
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE]spent the holidays at Worth, and after my dear mother's death, when wewere left quite alone, the bonds of our love were naturally drawn stillcloser. Even after my brother went to Oxford, at a time when most youngmen are anxious to enjoy a new-found liberty, and to travel or to visitfriends in their vacation, John's ardent affection for me and for WorthMaltravers kept him at home; and he was pleased on most occasions tomake me the partner of his thoughts and of his pleasures. This longvacation of 1842 was, I think, the happiest of our lives. In my case Iknow it was so, and I think it was happy also for him; for none couldguess that the small cloud seen in the distance like a man's hand wasafterwards to rise and darken all his later days. It was a summer of
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][EMOTION]brilliant and continued sunshine; many of the old people said that theycould never recollect so fine a season, and both fruit and crops werealike abundant. John hired a small cutter-yacht, the _Palestine_, whichhe kept in our little harbour of Encombe, and in which he and I mademany excursions, visiting Weymouth, Lyme Regis, and other places ofinterest on the south coast.In this summer my brother confided to me two secrets,--his lovefor Constance Temple, which indeed was after all no secret, and thehistory of the apparition which he had seen. This last filled me withinexpressible dread and distress. It seemed cruel and unnatural that any
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]influence so dark and mysterious should thus intrude on our bright life,and from the first I had an impression which I could not entirely shakeoff, that any such appearance or converse of a disembodied spirit mustportend misfortune, if not worse, to him who saw or heard it. It neveroccurred to me to combat or to doubt the reality of the vision; hebelieved that he had seen it, and his conviction was enough to convinceme. He had meant, he said, to tell no one, and had given a promise toMr. Gaskell to that effect; but I think that he could not bear to keepsuch a matter in his own breast, and within the first week of hisreturn he made me his confidant. I remember, my dear Edward, the lookeverything wore on that sad night when he first told me what afterwardsproved so terrible a secret. We had dined quite alone, and he had been
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][CONFLICT][PERSPECTIVE]moody and depressed all the evening. It was a chilly night, with somefret blowing up from the sea. The moon showed that blunted and deformedappearance which she assumes a day or two past the full, and themoisture in the air encircled her with a stormy-looking halo. We hadstepped out of the dining-room windows on to the little terrace lookingdown towards Smedmore and Encombe. The glaucous shrubs that grow in
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][HORROR]between the balusters were wet and dripping with the salt breath of thesea, and we could hear the waves coming into the cove from the west.After standing a minute I felt chill, and proposed that we should goback to the billiard-room, where a fire was lit on all except thewarmest nights. [DIALOGUE]"No," John said, [DIALOGUE]"I want to tell you something, Sophy,"and then we walked on to the old boat summer-house. There he told meeverything. I cannot describe to you my feelings of anguish and horror
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]when he told me of the appearance of the man. The interest of the talewas so absorbing to me that I took no note of time, nor of the coldnight air, and it was only when it was all finished that I felt howdeadly chill it had become. [DIALOGUE]"Let us go in, John," I said; [DIALOGUE]"I am cold andfeel benumbed."But youth is hopeful and strong, and in another week the impression hadfaded from our minds, and we were enjoying the full glory of midsummerweather, which I think only those know who have watched the blue seacome rippling in at the foot of the white chalk cliffs of Dorset.I had felt a reluctance even so much as to hear the air of the_Gagliarda_, and though he had spoken to me of the subject on more thanone occasion, my brother had never offered to play it to me. I knew that
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONTEXT][EMOTION]he had the copy of Graziani's suites with him at Worth Maltravers,because he had told me that he had brought it from Oxford; but I hadnever seen the book, and fancied that he kept it intentionally lockedup. He did not, however, neglect the violin, and during the summermornings, as I sat reading or working on the terrace, I often heard himplaying to himself in the library. Though he had never even given me anydescription of the melody of the _Gagliarda_, yet I felt certain that henot infrequently played it. I cannot say how it was; but from the momentthat I heard him one morning in the library performing an air set in acuriously low key, it forced itself upon my attention, and I knew, as itwere by instinct, that it must be the _Gagliarda_ of the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita."He was using a _sordino_ and playing it very softly; but I was notmistaken. One wet afternoon in October, only a week before the time of
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]his leaving us to return to Oxford for the autumn term, he walked intothe drawing-room where I was sitting, and proposed that we should playsome music together. To this I readily agreed. Though but a mediocreperformer, I have always taken much pleasure in the use of thepianoforte, and esteemed it an honour whenever he asked me to play withhim, since my powers as a musician were so very much inferior to his.After we had played several pieces, he took up an oblong music-bookbound in white vellum, placed it upon the desk of the pianoforte, andproposed that we should play a suite by Graziani. I knew that he meant
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita," and begged him at once not to ask me to play it. Herallied me lightly on my fears, and said it would much please him toplay it, as he had not heard the pianoforte part since he had leftOxford three months ago. I saw that he was eager to perform it, andbeing loath to disoblige so kind a brother during the last week of hisstay at home, I at length overcame my scruples and set out to play it.But I was so alarmed at the possibility of any evil consequencesensuing, that when we commenced the _Gagliarda_ I could scarcely findmy notes. Nothing in any way unusual, however, occurred; and being
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]reassured by this, and feeling an irresistible charm in the music, Ifinished the suite with more appearance of ease. My brother, however,was, I fear, not satisfied with my performance, and compared it, verypossibly, with that of Mr. Gaskell, to which it was necessarily muchinferior, both through weakness of execution and from my insufficientknowledge of the principles of the _basso continuo_. We stopped playing,and John stood looking out of the window across the sea, where the skywas clearing low down under the clouds. The sun went down behindPortland in a fiery glow which cheered us after a long day's rain. I had
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][RELIEF][CONTEXT]taken the copy of Graziani's suites off the desk, and was holding it onmy lap turning over the old foxed and yellow pages. As I closed it astreak of evening sunlight fell across the room and lighted up a coatof arms stamped in gilt on the cover. It was much faded and wouldordinarily have been hard to make out; but the ray of strong lightillumined it, and in an instant I recognised the same shield which Mr.Gaskell had pictured to himself as hanging on the musicians' gallery ofhis phantasmal dancing-room. My brother had often recounted to me thiseffort of his friend's imagination, and here I saw before me the sameflorid foreign blazon, a cherub's head blowing on three lilies on a goldfield. This discovery was not only of interest, but afforded me much
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][RELIEF][CONTEXT][RESOLUTION][PERSPECTIVE][SURPRISE]actual relief; for it accounted rationally for at least one item of thestrange story. Mr. Gaskell had no doubt noticed at some time this shieldstamped on the outside of the book, and bearing the impression of itunconsciously in his mind, had reproduced it in his imagined revels.I said as much to my brother, and he was greatly interested, and afterexamining the shield agreed that this was certainly a probable solutionof that part of the mystery. On the 12th of October John returned toOxford.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE][CHARACTER][CHAPTER]CHAPTER VIMy brother told me afterwards that more than once during the summervacation he had seriously considered with himself the propriety ofchanging his rooms at Magdalen Hall. He had thought that it might thusbe possible for him to get rid at once of the memory of the apparition,and of the fear of any reappearance of it. He could either have movedinto another set of rooms in the Hall itself, or else gone into lodgingsin the town--a usual proceeding, I am told, for gentlemen near the endof their course at Oxford. Would to God that he had indeed done so! but
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]with the supineness which has, I fear, my dear Edward, been toofrequently a characteristic of our family, he shrank from the troublesuch a course would involve, and the opening of the autumn term foundhim still in his old rooms. You will forgive me for entering here on avery brief description of your father's sitting-room. It is, I think,necessary for the proper understanding of the incidents that follow. Itwas not a large room, though probably the finest in the small buildingsof Magdalen Hall, and panelled from floor to ceiling with oak whichsuccessive generations had obscured by numerous coats of paint. On oneside were two windows having an aspect on to New College Lane, andfitted with deep cushioned seats in the recesses. Outside these windows
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]there were boxes of flowers, the brightness of which formed in thesummer term a pretty contrast to the grey and crumbling stone, andafforded pleasure at once to the inmate and to passers-by. Along nearlythe whole length of the wall opposite to the windows, some tenant inyears long past had had mahogany book-shelves placed, reaching to aheight of perhaps five feet from the floor. They were handsomely madein the style of the eighteenth century and pleased my brother's taste.He had always exhibited a partiality for books, and the fine library atWorth Maltravers had no doubt contributed to foster his tastes in thatdirection. At the time of which I write he had formed a small collection
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]for himself at Oxford, paying particular attention to the bindings, andacquiring many excellent specimens of that art, principally I think,from Messrs. Payne & Foss, the celebrated London booksellers.Towards the end of the autumn term, having occasion one cold day to takedown a volume of Plato from its shelf, he found to his surprise that thebook was quite warm. A closer examination easily explained to him thereason--namely, that the flue of a chimney, passing behind one end ofthe bookcase, sensibly heated not only the wall itself, but also thebooks in the shelves. Although he had been in his rooms now near threeyears, he had never before observed this fact; partly, no doubt, becausethe books in these shelves were seldom handled, being more for show asspecimens of bindings than for practical use. He was somewhat annoyed
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]at this discovery, fearing lest such a heat, which in moderation isbeneficial to books, might through its excess warp the leather orotherwise injure the bindings. Mr. Gaskell was sitting with him at thetime of the discovery, and indeed it was for his use that my brother hadtaken down the volume of Plato. He strongly advised that the bookcaseshould be moved, and suggested that it would be better to place itacross that end of the room where the pianoforte then stood. Theyexamined it and found that it would easily admit of removal, being, infact, only the frame of a bookcase, and showing at the back the paintedpanelling of the wall. Mr. Gaskell noted it as curious that all the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION]shelves were fixed and immovable except one at the end, which had beenfitted with the ordinary arrangement allowing its position to be alteredat will. My brother thought that the change would improve the appearanceof his rooms, besides being advantageous for the books, and gaveinstructions to the college upholsterer to have the necessary workcarried out at once.The two young men had resumed their musical studies, and had oftenplayed the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita" and other music of Graziani since their returnto Oxford in the Autumn. They remarked, however, that the chair nolonger creaked during the _Gagliarda_--and, in fact, that no unusualoccurrence whatever attended its performance. At times they were almost
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]tempted to doubt the accuracy of their own remembrances, and to consideras entirely mythical the mystery which had so much disturbed them in thesummer term. My brother had also pointed out to Mr. Gaskell my discoverythat the coat of arms on the outside of the music-book was identicalwith that which his fancy portrayed on the musicians' gallery. Hereadily admitted that he must at some time have noticed and afterwardsforgotten the blazon on the book, and that an unconscious reminiscenceof it had no doubt inspired his imagination in this instance. He rebukedmy brother for having agitated me unnecessarily by telling me at all ofso idle a tale; and was pleased to write a few lines to me at WorthMaltravers, felicitating me on my shrewdness of perception, but speakingbanteringly of the whole matter.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION]On the evening of the 14th of November my brother and his friend weresitting talking in the former's room. The position of the bookcase hadbeen changed on the morning of that day, and Mr. Gaskell had come roundto see how the books looked when placed at the end instead of at theside of the room. He had applauded the new arrangement, and the youngmen sat long over the fire, with a bottle of college port and a dish ofmedlars which I had sent my brother from our famous tree in the UpperCroft at Worth Maltravers. Later on they fell to music, and played avariety of pieces, performing also the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita" suite. Mr. Gaskell
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]before he left complimented John on the improvement which the alterationin the place of the bookcase had made in his room, saying, [DIALOGUE]"Not onlydo the books in their present place very much enhance the generalappearance of the room, but the change seems to me to have affected alsoa marked acoustical improvement. The oak panelling now exposed on theside of the room has given a resonant property to the wall which ispeculiarly responsive to the tones of your violin. While you wereplaying the _Gagliarda_ to-night, I could almost have imagined thatsomeone in an adjacent room was playing the same air with a _sordino_,so distinct was the echo."Shortly after this he left.My brother partly undressed himself in his bedroom, which adjoined, andthen returning to his sitting-room, pulled the large wicker chair infront of the fire, and sat there looking at the glowing coals, andthinking perhaps of Miss Constance Temple. The night promised to be verycold, and the wind whistled down the chimney, increasing the comfortablesensation of the clear fire. He sat watching the ruddy reflection of thefirelight dancing on the panelled wall, when he noticed that a pictureplaced where the end of the bookcase formerly stood was not truly hung,and needed adjustment. A picture hung askew was particularly offensive
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][EMOTION][FLASHBACK]to his eyes, and he got up at once to alter it. He remembered as he wentup to it that at this precise spot four months ago he had lost sightof the man's figure which he saw rise from the wicker chair, and atthe memory felt an involuntary shudder. This reminiscence probablyinfluenced his fancy also in another direction; for it seemed to himthat very faintly, as though played far off, and with the _sordino_,he could hear the air of the _Gagliarda_. He put one hand behind thepicture to steady it, and as he did so his finger struck a very slightprojection in the wall. He pulled the picture a little to one side, and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][SURPRISE]saw that what he had touched was the back of a small hinge sunk in thewall, and almost obliterated with many coats of paint. His curiositywas excited, and he took a candle from the table and examined the wallcarefully. Inspection soon showed him another hinge a little further up,and by degrees he perceived that one of the panels had been made at sometime in the past to open, and serve probably as the door of a cupboard.At this point he assured me that a feverish anxiety to re-open thiscupboard door took possession of him, and that the intense excitementfilled his mind which we experience on the eve of a discovery whichwe fancy may produce important results. He loosened the paint in the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][SURPRISE]cracks with a penknife, and attempted to press open the door; but hisinstrument was not adequate to such a purpose, and all his effortsremained ineffective. His excitement had now reached an overmasteringpitch; for he anticipated, though he knew not why, some strangediscovery to be made in this sealed cupboard. He looked round the roomfor some weapon with which to force the door, and at length with hispenknife cut away sufficient wood at the joint to enable him to insertthe end of the poker in the hole. The clock in the New College Towerstruck one at the exact moment when with a sharp effort he thus forcedopen the door. It appeared never to have had a fastening, but merely to
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][EMOTION][SURPRISE]have been stuck fast by the accumulation of paint. As he bent it slowlyback upon the rusted hinges his heart beat so fast that he couldscarcely catch his breath, though he was conscious all the while of aludicrous aspect of his position, knowing that it was most probablethat the cavity within would be found empty. The cupboard was small butvery deep, and in the obscure light seemed at first to contain nothingexcept a small heap of dust and cobwebs. His sense of disappointment waskeen as he thrust his hand into it, but changed again in a moment tobreathless interest on feeling something solid in what he had imaginedto be only an accumulation of mould and dirt. He snatched up a candle,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][EMOTION]and holding this in one hand, with the other pulled out an object fromthe cupboard and put it on the table, covered as it was with the curiousdrapery of black and clinging cobwebs which I have seen adhering tobottles of old wine. It lay there between the dish of medlars and thedecanter, veiled indeed with thick dust as with a mantle, but revealingbeneath it the shape and contour of a violin.[CHAPTER]CHAPTER VIIJohn was excited at his discovery, and felt his thoughts confused in amanner that I have often experienced myself on the unexpected receipt ofnews interesting me deeply, whether for pleasure or pain. Yet at thesame time he was half amused at his own excitement, feeling that itwas childish to be moved over an event so simple as the finding of aviolin in an old cupboard. He soon collected himself and took up the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE]instrument, using great care, as he feared lest age should have renderedthe wood brittle or rotten. With some vigorous puffs of breath and alittle dusting with a handkerchief he removed the heavy outer coatingof cobwebs, and began to see more clearly the delicate curves of thebody and of the scroll. A few minutes' more gentle handling left theinstrument sufficiently clean to enable him to appreciate its chiefpoints. Its seclusion from the outer world, which the heavy accumulationof dust proved to have been for many years, did not seem to have damagedit in the least; and the fact of a chimney-flue passing through the wallat no great distance had no doubt conduced to maintain the air in thecupboard at an equable temperature. So far as he was able to judge, the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]wood was as sound as when it left the maker's hands; but the stringswere of course broken, and curled up in little tangled knots. The bodywas of a light-red colour, with a varnish of peculiar lustre andsoftness. The neck seemed rather longer than ordinary, and the scrollwas remarkably bold and free.The violin which my brother was in the habit of using was a fine_Pressenda_, given to him on his fifteenth birthday by Mr. Thoresby, hisguardian. It was of that maker's later and best period, and a copy of
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR]the Stradivarius model. John took this from its case and laid it side byside with his new discovery, meaning to compare them for size and form.He perceived at once that while the model of both was identical, thesuperiority of the older violin in every detail was so marked as toconvince him that it was undoubtedly an instrument of exceptional value.The extreme beauty of its varnish impressed him vividly, and though hehad never seen a genuine Stradivarius, he felt a conviction graduallygaining on him that he stood in the presence of a masterpiece of thatgreat maker. On looking into the interior he found that surprisingly
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][EMOTION][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT]little dust had penetrated into it, and by blowing through thesound-holes he soon cleared it sufficiently to enable him to discern alabel. He put the candle close to him, and held the violin up so thata little patch of light fell through the sound-hole on to the label.His heart leapt with a violent pulsation as he read the characters,[DIALOGUE]"_Antonius Stradiuarius Cremonensis faciebat_, 1704." Under ordinarycircumstances it would naturally be concluded that such a label wasa forgery, but the conditions were entirely altered in the case of aviolin found in a forgotten cupboard, with proof so evident of itshaving remained there for a very long period.He was not at that time as familiar with the history of the fiddles ofthe great maker as he, and indeed I also, afterwards became. Thus he
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][DANGER]was unable to decide how far the exact year of its manufacture woulddetermine its value as compared with other specimens of Stradivarius.But although the Pressenda he had been used to play on was alwaysconsidered a very fine instrument both in make and varnish, his newdiscovery so far excelled it in both points as to assure him that itmust be one of the Cremonese master's greatest productions.He examined the violin minutely, scrutinising each separate feature,and finding each in turn to be of the utmost perfection, so far as hisknowledge of the instrument would enable him to judge. He lit morecandles that he might be able better to see it, and holding it on hisknees, sat still admiring it until the dying fire and increasing coldwarned him that the night was now far advanced. At last, carrying it to
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]his bedroom, he locked it carefully into a drawer and retired for thenight.He woke next morning with that pleasurable consciousness of therebeing some reason for gladness, which we feel on waking in seasons ofhappiness, even before our reason, locating it, reminds us what theactual source of our joy may be. He was at first afraid lest hisexcitement, working on the imagination, should have led him on theprevious night to overestimate the fineness of the instrument, and hetook it from the drawer half expecting to be disappointed with itsdaylight appearance. But a glance sufficed to convince him of theunfounded nature of his suspicions. The various beauties which he had
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CHARACTER]before observed were enhanced a hundredfold by the light of day, and herealised more fully than ever that the instrument was one of altogetherexceptional value.And now, my dear Edward, I shall ask your forgiveness if in the historyI have to relate any observation of mine should seem to reflect on thecharacter of your late father, Sir John Maltravers. And I beg you toconsider that your father was also my dear and only brother, and that itis inexpressibly painful to me to recount any actions of his which maynot seem becoming to a noble gentleman, as he surely was. I only nowproceed because, when very near his end, he most strictly enjoined me tonarrate these circumstances to you fully when you should come of age.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]We must humbly remember that to God alone belongs judgment, and thatit is not for poor mortals to decide what is right or wrong in certaininstances for their fellows, but that each should strive most earnestlyto do his own duty.Your father entirely concealed from me the discovery he had made. Itwas not till long afterwards that I had it narrated to me, and I onlyobtained a knowledge of this and many other of the facts which I am nowtelling you at a date much subsequent to their actual occurrence.He explained to his servant that he had discovered and opened an oldcupboard in the panelling, without mentioning the fact of his havingfound anything in it, but merely asking him to give instructions for thepaint to be mended and the cupboard put into a usable state. Before he
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION]had finished a very late breakfast Mr. Gaskell was with him, and it hasbeen a source of lasting regret to me that my brother concealed alsofrom his most intimate and trusted friend the discovery of the previousnight. He did, indeed, tell him that he had found and opened an oldcupboard in the panelling, but made no mention of there having beenanything within. I cannot say what prompted him to this action; for thetwo young men had for long been on such intimate terms that the oneshared almost as a matter of course with the other any pleasure or painwhich might fall to his lot. Mr. Gaskell looked at the cupboard withsome interest, saying afterwards, "I know now, Johnnie, why the oneshelf of the bookcase which stood there was made movable when all theothers were fixed. Some former occupant used the cupboard, no doubt,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR][FLASHBACK][PROBLEM][DANGER]as a secret receptacle for his treasures, and masked it with thebook-shelves in front. Who knows what he kept in here, or who he was! Ishould not be surprised if he were that very man who used to come hereso often to hear us play the 'Areopagita,' and whom you saw that nightlast June. He had the one shelf made, you see, to move so as to give himaccess to this cavity on occasion: then when he left Oxford, or perhapsdied, the mystery was forgotten, and with a few times of painting thecracks closed up."
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Mr. Gaskell shortly afterwards took his leave as he had a lectureto attend, and my brother was left alone to the contemplation of hisnew-found treasure. After some consideration he determined that he wouldtake the instrument to London, and obtain the opinion of an expert asto its authenticity and value. He was well acquainted with the late Mr.George Smart, the celebrated London dealer, from whom his guardian, Mr.Thoresby, had purchased the Pressenda violin which John commonly used.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Besides being a dealer in valuable instruments, Mr. Smart was a famouscollector of Stradivarius fiddles, esteemed one of the first authoritiesin Europe in that domain of art, and author of a valuable work ofreference in connection with it. It was to him, therefore, that mybrother decided to submit the violin, and he wrote a letter to Mr. Smartsaying that he should give himself the pleasure of waiting on him thenext day on a matter of business. He then called on his tutor, and withsome excuse obtained leave to journey to London the next morning. Hespent the rest of the day in very carefully cleaning the violin, andnoon of the next saw him with it, securely packed, in Mr. Smart'sestablishment in Bond Street.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Mr. Smart received Sir John Maltravers with deference, demanded in whatway he could serve him; and on hearing that his opinion was required onthe authenticity of a violin, smiled somewhat dubiously and led the wayinto a back parlour.[DIALOGUE]"My dear Sir John," he said, [DIALOGUE]"I hope you have not been led into buyingany instrument by a faith in its antiquity. So many good copies ofinstruments by famous makers and bearing their labels are now afloat,that the chances of obtaining a genuine fiddle from an unrecognisedsource are quite remote; of hundreds of violins submitted to me foropinion, I find that scarce one in fifty is actually that which itrepresents itself to be. In fact the only safe rule," he added as aprofessional commentary, [DIALOGUE]"is never to buy a violin unless you obtain itfrom a dealer with a reputation to lose, and are prepared to pay areasonable price for it."My brother had meanwhile unpacked the violin and laid it on the table.As he took from it the last leaf of silver paper he saw Mr. Smart'ssmile of condescension fade, and assuming a look of interest andexcitement, he stepped forward, took the violin in his hands, andscrutinised it minutely. He turned it over in silence for some moments,looking narrowly at each feature, and even applying the test of amagnifying-glass. At last he said with an altered tone, "Sir John, I
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]have had in my hands nearly all the finest productions of Stradivarius,and thought myself acquainted with every instrument of note that everleft his workshop; but I confess myself mistaken, and apologise to youfor the doubt which I expressed as to the instrument you had brought me.This violin is of the great master's golden period, is incontestablygenuine, and finer in some respects than any Stradivarius that I haveever seen, not even excepting the famous _Dolphin_ itself. You need beunder no apprehension as to its authenticity: no connoisseur could holdit in his hand for a second and entertain a doubt on the point.[DIALOGUE]"My brother was greatly pleased at so favourable a verdict, and Mr. Smartcontinued--"The varnish is of that rich red which Stradivarius used in his bestperiod after he had abandoned the yellow tint copied by him at firstfrom his master Amati. I have never seen a varnish thicker or more
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR][TRANSITION]lustrous, and it shows on the back that peculiar shading to imitate wearwhich we term 'breaking up.' The purfling also is of an unsurpassableexcellence. Its execution is so fine that I should recommend you to usea magnifying-glass for its examination."So he ran on, finding from moment to moment some new beauties toadmire.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]My brother was at first anxious lest Mr. Smart should ask him whence soextraordinary an instrument came, but he saw that the expert had alreadyjumped to a conclusion in the matter. He knew that John had recentlycome of age, and evidently supposed that he had found the violin amongthe heirlooms of Worth Maltravers. John allowed Mr. Smart to continue inthis misconception, merely saying that he had discovered the instrumentin an old cupboard, where he had reason to think it had remained hiddenfor many years.[DIALOGUE]"Are there no records attached to so splendid an instrument?" asked Mr.Smart. "I suppose it has been with your family a number of years. Do you
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][EMOTION][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][TRANSITION]not know how it came into their possession?"I believe this was the first occasion on which it had occurred to Johnto consider what right he had to the possession of the instrument. Hehad been so excited by its discovery that the question of ownership hadnever hitherto crossed his mind. The unwelcome suggestion that it wasnot his after all, that the College might rightfully prefer a claim toit, presented itself to him for a moment; but he set it instantly aside,quieting his conscience with the reflection that this at least was notthe moment to make such a disclosure.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]He fenced with Mr. Smart's inquiry as best he could, saying that he wasignorant of the history of the instrument, but not contradicting theassumption that it had been a long time in his family's possession.[DIALOGUE]"It is indeed singular," Mr. Smart continued, [DIALOGUE]"that so magnificentan instrument should have lain buried so long; that even those bestacquainted with such matters should be in perfect ignorance of itsexistence. I shall have to revise the list of famous instruments in thenext edition of my 'History of the Violin,' and to write," he addedsmiling, [DIALOGUE]"a special paragraph on the 'Worth Maltravers Stradivarius.'"After much more, which I need not narrate, Mr. Smart suggested thatthe violin should be left with him that he might examine it more atleisure, and that my brother should return in a week's time, when hewould have the instrument opened, an operation which would be in anycase advisable. [DIALOGUE]"The interior," he added, "appears to be in a strictlyoriginal state, and this I shall be able to ascertain when opened. Thelabel is perfect, but if I am not mistaken I can see something higher upon the back which appears like a second label. This excites my interest,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][DANGER]as I know of no instance of an instrument bearing two labels."To this proposal my brother readily assented, being anxious to enjoyalone the pleasure of so gratifying a discovery as that of the undoubtedauthenticity of the instrument.As he thought over the matter more at leisure, he grew anxious as towhat might be the import of the second label in the violin of which Mr.Smart had spoken. I blush to say that he feared lest it might bear someowner's name or other inscription proving that the instrument had notbeen so long in the Maltravers family as he had allowed Mr. Smart tosuppose. So within so short a time it was possible that Sir John
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]Maltravers of Worth should dread being detected, if not in an absolutefalsehood, at least in having by his silence assented to one.During the ensuing week John remained in an excited and anxiouscondition. He did little work, and neglected his friends, having histhoughts continually occupied with the strange discovery he had made.I know also that his sense of honour troubled him, and that he was notsatisfied with the course he was pursuing. The evening of his return
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM]from London he went to Mr. Gaskell's rooms at New College, and spent anhour conversing with him on indifferent subjects. In the course of theirtalk he proposed to his friend as a moral problem the question of thecourse of action to be taken were one to find some article of valueconcealed in his room. Mr. Gaskell answered unhesitatingly that heshould feel bound to disclose it to the authorities. He saw that mybrother was ill at ease, and with a clearness of judgment which healways exhibited, guessed that he had actually made some discovery ofthis sort in the old cupboard in his rooms. He could not divine, ofcourse, the exact nature of the object found, and thought it mightprobably relate to a hoard of gold; but insisted with much urgency onthe obligation to at once disclose anything of this kind. My brother,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT]however, misled, I fear, by that feeling of inalienable right which thetreasure-hunter experiences over the treasure, paid no more attention tothe advice of his friend than to the promptings of his own conscience,and went his way.From that day, my dear Edward, he began to exhibit a spirit ofsecretiveness and reserve entirely alien to his own open and honourabledisposition, and also saw less of Mr. Gaskell. His friend tried, indeed,to win his confidence and affection in every way in his power; but inspite of this the rift between them widened insensibly, and my brotherlost the fellowship and counsel of a true friend at a time when he couldill afford to be without them.He returned to London the ensuing week, and met Mr. George Smart byappointment in Bond Street. If the expert had been enthusiastic on a
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]former occasion, he was ten times more so on this. He spoke in termsalmost of rapture about the violin. He had compared it with twomagnificent instruments in the collection of the late Mr. James Loding,then the finest in Europe; and it was admittedly superior to either,both in the delicate markings of its wood and singularly fine varnish.[DIALOGUE]"Of its tone," he said, "we cannot, of course, yet pronounce withcertainty, but I am very sure that its voice will not belie its splendidexterior. It has been carefully opened, and is in a strangely perfectcondition. Several persons eminently qualified to judge unite with me
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][CHARACTERIZATION][EXPOSITION][CONFLICT][CHARACTER][PROBLEM]in considering that it has been exceedingly little played upon, andadmit that never has so intact an interior been seen. The scroll isexceptionally bold and original. Although undoubtedly from the hand ofthe great master, this is of a pattern entirely different and distinctfrom any that have ever come under my observation."He then pointed out to my brother that the side lines of the scroll wereunusually deeply cut, and that the front of it projected far more thanis common with such instruments.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DIALOGUE]"The most remarkable feature," he concluded, [DIALOGUE]"is that the instrumentbears a double label. Besides the label which you have already seenbearing '_Antonius Stradiuarius Cremonensis faciebat_,' with the date ofhis most splendid period, 1704, so clearly that the ink seems scarcelydry, there is another smaller one higher up on the back which I willshow you."He took the violin apart and showed him a small label with characterswritten in faded ink. "That is the writing of Antonio Stradivariushimself, and is easily recognisable, though it is much firmer thana specimen which I once saw, written in extreme old age, and givinghis name and the date 1736. He was then ninety-two, and died in thefollowing year. But this, as you will see, does not give his name, butmerely the two words '_Porphyrius philosophus_.' What this may refer
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CONFLICT]to I cannot say: it is beyond my experience. My friend Mr. Calvert hassuggested that Stradivarius may have dedicated this violin to the paganphilosopher, or named it after him; but this seems improbable. I have,indeed, heard of two famous violins being called 'Peter' and 'Paul,'but the instances of such naming are very rare; and I believe it to bealtogether without precedent to find a name attached thus on a label."In any case, I must leave this matter to your ingenuity to decipher.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][RELIEF]Neither the sound-post nor the bass-bar have ever been moved, and yousee here a Stradivarius violin wearing exactly the same appearance asit once wore in the great master's workshop, and in exactly the samecondition; yet I think the belly is sufficiently strong to stand modernstringing. I should advise you to leave the instrument with me for somelittle while, that I may give it due care and attention and ensure itsbeing properly strung."My brother thanked him and left the violin with him, saying that hewould instruct him later by letter to what address he wished it sent.[CHAPTER]CHAPTER VIIIWithin a few days after this the autumn term came to an end, and inthe second week of December John returned to Worth Maltravers forthe Christmas vacation. His advent was always a very great pleasure
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][EMOTION][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE]to me, and on this occasion I had looked forward to his company withanticipation keener than usual, as I had been disappointed of the visitof a friend and had spent the last month alone. After the joy of ourfirst meeting had somewhat sobered, it was not long before I remarked achange in his manner, which puzzled me. It was not that he was less kindto me, for I think he was even more tenderly forbearing and gentle thanI had ever known him, but I had an uneasy feeling that some shadow hadcrept in between us. It was the small cloud rising in the distance thatafterwards darkened his horizon and mine. I missed the old candour and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DANGER]open-hearted frankness that he had always shown; and there seemed to bealways something in the background which he was trying to keep from me.It was obvious that his thoughts were constantly elsewhere, so much sothat on more than one occasion he returned vague and incoherent answersto my questions. At times I was content to believe that he was in love,and that his thoughts were with Miss Constance Temple; but even so,I could not persuade myself that his altered manner was to be thusentirely accounted for. At other times a dazed air, entirely foreign tohis bright disposition, which I observed particularly in the morning,raised in my mind the terrible suspicion that he was in the habit oftaking some secret narcotic or other deleterious drug.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][RELIEF][EMOTION][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]We had never spent a Christmas away from Worth Maltravers, and it hadalways been a season of quiet joy for both of us. But under thesealtered circumstances it was a great relief and cause of thankfulnessto me to receive a letter from Mrs. Temple inviting us both to spendChristmas and New Year at Royston. This invitation had upon my brotherprecisely the effect that I had hoped for. It roused him from his moodycondition, and he professed much pleasure in accepting it, especially ashe had never hitherto been in Derbyshire.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]There was a small but very agreeable party at Royston, and we passed amost enjoyable fortnight. My brother seemed thoroughly to have shakenoff his indisposition; and I saw my fondest hopes realised in the warmattachment which was evidently springing up between him and MissConstance Temple.Our visit drew near its close, and it was within a week of John's returnto Oxford. Mrs. Temple celebrated the termination of the Christmasfestivities by giving a ball on Twelfth-night, at which a large partywere present, including most of the county families. Royston was
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]admirably adapted for such entertainments, from the number and greatsize of its reception-rooms. Though Elizabethan in date and externalappearance, succeeding generations had much modified and enlarged thehouse; and an ancestor in the middle of the last century had built atthe back an enormous hall after the classic model, and covered it with adome or cupola. In this room the dancing went forward. Supper was servedin the older hall in the front, and it was while this was in progressthat a thunderstorm began. The rarity of such a phenomenon in the depthof winter formed the subject of general remark; but though the lightningwas extremely brilliant, being seen distinctly through the curtainedwindows, the storm appeared to be at some distance, and, except for onepeal, the thunder was not loud. After supper dancing was resumed, and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT]I was taking part in a polka (called, I remember, the [DIALOGUE]"_King Pippin_"),when my partner pointed out that one of the footmen wished to speak withme. I begged him to lead me to one side, and the servant then informedme that my brother was ill. Sir John, he said, had been seized with afainting fit, but had been got to bed, and was being attended by Dr.Empson, a physician who chanced to be present among the visitors.I at once left the hall and hurried to my brother's room. On the way
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION]I met Mrs. Temple and Constance, the latter much agitated and in tears.Mrs. Temple assured me that Dr. Empson reported favourably of mybrother's condition, attributing his faintness to over-exertion in thedancing-room. The medical man had got him to bed with the assistance ofSir John's valet, had given him a quieting draught, and ordered that heshould not be disturbed for the present. It was better that I should notenter the room; she begged that I would kindly comfort and reassureConstance, who was much upset, while she herself returned to her guests.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]I led Constance to my bedroom, where there was a bright fire burning,and calmed her as best I could. Her interest in my brother was evidentlyvery real and unaffected, and while not admitting her partiality for himin words, she made no effort to conceal her sentiments from me. I kissedher tenderly, and bade her narrate the circumstances of John's attack.It seemed that after supper they had gone upstairs into the music-room,and he had himself proposed that they should walk thence into thepicture-gallery, where they would better he able to see the lightning,which was then particularly vivid. The picture-gallery at Royston is a
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK]very long, narrow, and rather low room, running the whole length of thesouth wing, and terminating in a large Tudor oriel or flat bay windowlooking east. In this oriel they had sat for some time watching theflashes, and the wintry landscape revealed for an instant and thenplunged into outer blackness. The gallery itself was not illuminated,and the effect of the lightning was very fine.There had been an unusually bright flash accompanied by that singlereverberating peal of thunder which I had previously noticed. Constance
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][SURPRISE]had spoken to my brother, but he had not replied, and in a moment shesaw that he had swooned. She summoned aid without delay, but it was someshort time before consciousness had been restored to him.She had concluded this narrative, and sat holding my hand in hers. Wewere speculating on the cause of my brother's illness, thinking it mightbe due to over-exertion, or to sitting in a chilly atmosphere as thepicture-gallery was not warmed, when Mrs. Temple knocked at the door andsaid that John was now more composed and desired earnestly to see me.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][SURPRISE]On entering my brother's bedroom I found him sitting up in bed wearing adressing-gown. Parnham, his valet, who was arranging the fire, left theroom as I came in. A chair stood at the head of the bed and I sat downby him. He took my hand in his and without a word burst into tears.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][EMOTION][FLASHBACK][TRANSITION][DIALOGUE]"Sophy," he said, "I am so unhappy, and I have sent for you to tell youof my trouble, because I know you will be forbearing to me. An hourago all seemed so bright. I was sitting in the picture-gallery withConstance, whom I love dearly. We had been watching the lightning, tillthe thunder had grown fainter and the storm seemed past. I was just
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][SURPRISE][DANGER][FLASHBACK][CONFLICT][CLIMAX][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][TRANSITION][METAPHOR][HORROR]about to ask her to become my wife when a brighter flash than all therest burst on us, and I saw--I saw, Sophy, standing in the gallery asclose to me as you are now--I saw--that man I told you about at Oxford;and then this faintness came on me.[DIALOGUE][DIALOGUE]""Whom do you mean?[DIALOGUE]" I said, not understanding what he spoke of, andthinking for a moment he referred to someone else. "Did you see Mr.Gaskell?""No, it was not he; but that dead man whom I saw rising from my wickerchair the night you went away from Oxford."You will perhaps smile at my weakness, my dear Edward, and indeed I hadat that time no justification for it; but I assure you that I have notyet forgotten, and never shall forget, the impression of overwhelminghorror which his words produced upon me. It seemed as though a fearwhich had hitherto stood vague and shadowy in the background, began nowto advance towards me, gathering more distinctness as it approached.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE]There was to me something morbidly terrible about the apparition of thisman at such a momentous crisis in my brother's life, and I at oncerecognised that unknown form as being the shadow which was graduallystealing between John and myself. Though I feigned incredulity as bestI might, and employed those arguments or platitudes which will always beused on such occasions, urging that such a phantom could only exist in amind disordered by physical weakness, my brother was not deceived by mywords, and perceived in a moment that I did not even believe in themmyself.[DIALOGUE]"Dearest Sophy," he said, with a much calmer air, "let us put aside alldissimulation. I _know_ that what I have to-night seen, and that what Isaw last summer at Oxford, are _not_ phantoms of my brain; and I believethat you too in your inmost soul are convinced of this truth. Do not,therefore, endeavour to persuade me to the contrary. If I am not to
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM][CHARACTER][CHARACTERIZATION][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][EXPOSITION][CONTEXT][DANGER][HORROR]believe the evidence of my senses, it were better at once to admit mymadness--and I know that I am not mad. Let us rather consider what suchan appearance can portend, and who the man is who is thus presented.I cannot explain to you why this appearance inspires me with so greata revulsion. I can only say that in its presence I seem to be broughtface to face with some abysmal and repellent wickedness. It is not that
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM][FLASHBACK][DANGER][PERSPECTIVE][CHARACTER][CONTEXT][TRANSITION][EXPOSITION][CHARACTERIZATION][HORROR]the form he wears is hideous. Last night I saw him exactly as I saw himat Oxford--his face waxen pale, with a sneering mouth, the same loftyforehead, and hair brushed straight up so as almost to appear standingon end. He wore the same long coat of green cloth and white waistcoat.He seemed as if he had been standing listening to what we said, thoughwe had not seen him till this bright flash of lightning made himmanifest. You will remember that when I saw him at Oxford his eyes were
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION][SURPRISE]always cast down, so that I never knew their colour. This time they werewide open; indeed he was looking full at us, and they were a light brownand very brilliant."I saw that my brother was exciting himself, and was still weak from hisrecent swoon. I knew, too, that any ordinary person of strong mind wouldsay at once that his brain wandered, and yet I had a dreadful convictionall the while that what he told me was the truth. All I could do was to
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]beg him to calm himself, and to reflect how vain such fancies must be.[DIALOGUE]"We must trust, dear John," I said, [DIALOGUE]"in God. I am sure that so long aswe are not living in conscious sin, we shall never be given over to anyevil power; and I know my brother too well to think that he is doinganything he knows to be evil. If there be evil spirits, as we are taughtthere are, we are taught also that there are good spirits stronger thanthey, who will protect us."So I spoke with him a little while, until he grew calmer; and then wetalked of Constance and of his love for her. He was deeply pleased tohear from me how she had shown such obvious, signs of interest in hisillness, and sincere affection for him. In any case, he made me promisethat I would never mention to her either what he had seen this night orlast summer at Oxford.It had grown late, and the undulating beat of the dances, which hadbeen distinctly sensible in his room--even though we could not hearany definite noise--had now ceased. Mrs. Temple knocked at the door as
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION]she went to bed and inquired how he did, giving him at the same timea kind message of sympathy from Constance, which afforded him muchgratification. After she had left I prepared also to retire; but beforegoing he begged me to take a prayer-book lying on the table, and to readaloud a collect which he pointed out. It was that for the second Sundayin Lent, and evidently well known to him. As I read it the words seemedto bear a new and deeper significance, and my heart repeated withfervour the petition for protection from those [DIALOGUE]"evil thoughts which mayassault and hurt the soul." I bade him good night and went away verysorrowful. Parnham, at John's request, had arranged to sleep on a sofa
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK][CONFLICT]in his master's bedroom.I rose betimes the next morning and inquired at my brother's room howhe was. Parnham reported that he had passed a restless night, and onentering a little later I found him in a high fever, slightly delirious,and evidently not so well as when I saw him last. Mrs. Temple, with muchkindness and forethought, had begged Dr. Empson to remain at Royston forthe night, and he was soon in attendance on his patient. His verdict
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DANGER][EMOTION][PROBLEM]was sufficiently grave: John was suffering from a sharp access ofbrain-fever; his condition afforded cause for alarm; he could not answerfor any turn his sickness might take. You will easily imagine how muchthis intelligence affected me; and Mrs. Temple and Constance shared myanxiety and solicitude. Constance and I talked much with one anotherthat morning. Unaffected anxiety had largely removed her reserve, andshe spoke openly of her feelings towards my brother, not concealing herpartiality for him. I on my part let her understand how welcome to me
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]would be any union between her and John, and how sincerely I shouldvalue her as a sister.It was a wild winter's morning, with some snow falling and a high wind.The house was in the disordered condition which is generally observableon the day following a ball or other important festivity. I roamedrestlessly about, and at last found my way to the picture-gallery,which had formed the scene of John's adventure on the previous night.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]I had never been in this part of the house before, as it contained nofacilities for heating, and so often remained shut in the winter months.I found a listless pleasure in admiring the pictures which lined thewalls, most of them being portraits of former members of the family,including the famous picture of Sir Ralph Temple and his family,attributed to Holbein. I had reached the end of the gallery and satdown in the oriel watching the snow-flakes falling sparsely, and theevergreens below me waving wildly in the sudden rushes of the wind. Mythoughts were busy with the events of the previous evening,--with John'sillness, with the ball,--and I found myself humming the air of a waltzthat had caught my fancy. At last I turned away from the garden scene
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CHARACTER][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK]towards the gallery, and as I did so my eyes fell on a remarkablepicture just opposite to me.It was a full-length portrait of a young man, life-size, and I hadbarely time to appreciate even its main features when I knew that I hadbefore me the painted counterfeit of my brother's vision. The discoverycaused me a violent shock, and it was with an infinite repulsion thatI recognised at once the features and dress of the man whom John hadseen rising from the chair at Oxford. So accurately had my brother'simagination described him to me, that it seemed as if I had myself seenhim often before. I noted each feature, comparing them with my brother's
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CHARACTER][CHARACTERIZATION][CONTEXT][PERSPECTIVE]description, and finding them all familiar and corresponding exactly.He was a man still in the prime of life. His features were regular andbeautifully modelled; yet there was something in his face that inspiredme with a deep aversion, though his brown eyes were open and brilliant.His mouth was sharply cut, with a slight sneer on the lips, and hiscomplexion of that extreme pallor which had impressed itself deeply onmy brother's imagination and my own.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][RELIEF][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]After the first intense surprise had somewhat subsided, I experienceda feeling of great relief, for here was an extraordinary explanationof my brother's vision of last night. It was certain that the flashof lightning had lit up this ill-starred picture, and that to hispredisposed fancy the painted figure had stood forth as an actualembodiment. That such an incident, however startling, should have beenable to fling John into a brain-fever, showed that he must already havebeen in a very low and reduced state, on which excitement would act muchmore powerfully than on a more robust condition of health. A similarstate of weakness, perturbed by the excitement of his passion forConstance Temple, might surely also have conjured up the vision whichhe thought he saw the night of our leaving Oxford in the summer.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]These thoughts, my dear Edward, gave me great relief; for it seemeda comparatively trivial matter that my brother should be ill, evenseriously ill, if only his physical indisposition could explain away thesupernatural dread which had haunted us for the past six months. Theclouds were breaking up. It was evident that John had been seriouslyunwell for some months; his physical weakness had acted on his brain;and I had lent colour to his wandering fancies by being alarmed by them,instead of rejecting them at once or gently laughing them away as Ishould have done. But these glad thoughts took me too far, and I wassuddenly brought up by a reflection that did not admit of so simple anexplanation. If the man's form my brother saw at Oxford were merely an
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CHARACTER][CHARACTERIZATION][CONTEXT]effort of disordered imagination, how was it that he had been able todescribe it exactly like that represented in this picture? He had neverin his life been to Royston, therefore he could have no image of thepicture impressed unconsciously on or hidden away in his mind. Yet hisdescription had never varied. It had been so close as to enable me toproduce in my fancy a vivid representation of the man he had seen; andhere I had before me the features and dress exactly reproduced. In the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION]presence of a coincidence so extraordinary reason stood confounded, andI knew not what to think. I walked nearer to the picture and scrutinisedit closely.The dress corresponded in every detail with that which my brother haddescribed the figure as wearing at Oxford: a long cut-away coat of greencloth with an edge of gold embroidery, a white satin waistcoat withsprigs of embroidered roses, gold-lace at the pocket-holes, buff silkknee-breeches, and low down on the finely modelled neck a full cravatof rich lace. The figure was posed negligently against a fluted stonepedestal or short column on which the left elbow leant, and the rightfoot was crossed lightly over the left. His shoes were of polished
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CHARACTER]black leather with heavy silver buckles, and the whole costume was veryold-fashioned, and such as I had only seen worn at fancy dress balls. Onthe foot of the pedestal was the painter's name, [DIALOGUE]"BATTONI pinxit, Romæ,1750." On the top of the pedestal, and under his left elbow, was a longroll apparently of music, of which one end, unfolded, hung over theedge.For some minutes I stood still gazing at this portrait which so muchastonished me, but turned on hearing footsteps in the gallery, and sawConstance, who had come to seek for me.[DIALOGUE]"Constance," I said, [DIALOGUE]"whose portrait is this? It is a very strikingpicture, is it not?""Yes, it is a splendid painting, though of a very bad man. His name wasAdrian Temple, and he once owned Royston. I do not know much about him,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][CHARACTER][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT]but I believe he was very wicked and very clever. My mother would beable to tell you more. It is a picture we none of us like, although sofinely painted; and perhaps because he was always pointed out to me fromchildhood as a bad man, I have myself an aversion to it. It is singularthat when the very bright flash of lightning came last night while yourbrother John and I were sitting here, it lit this picture with adazzling glare that made the figure stand out so strangely as to seemalmost alive. It was just after that I found that John had fainted."
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]The memory was not a pleasant one for either of us and we changed thesubject. [DIALOGUE]"Come," I said, [DIALOGUE]"let us leave the gallery, it is very coldhere."Though I said nothing more at the time, her words had made a greatimpression on me. It was so strange that, even with the little she knewof this Adrian Temple, she should speak at once of his notoriously evillife, and of her personal dislike to the picture. Remembering what mybrother had said on the previous night, that in the presence of this manhe felt himself brought face to face with some indescribable wickedness,I could not but be surprised at the coincidence. The whole story seemed
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][METAPHOR]to me now to resemble one of those puzzle pictures or maps which I haveplayed with as a child, where each bit fits into some other until theoutline is complete. It was as if I were finding the pieces one by oneof a bygone history, and fitting them to one another until some terriblewhole should be gradually built up and stand out in its completedeformity.Dr. Empson spoke gravely of John's illness, and entertained withoutreluctance the proposal of Mrs. Temple, that Dr. Dobie, a celebratedphysician in Derby, should be summoned to a consultation. Dr. Dobie camemore than once, and was at last able to report an amendment in John'scondition, though both the doctors absolutely forbade anyone to visithim, and said that under the most favourable circumstances a period ofsome weeks must elapse before he could be moved.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Mrs. Temple invited me to remain at Royston until my brother should besufficiently convalescent to be moved; and both she and Constance, whileregretting the cause, were good enough to express themselves pleasedthat accident should detain me so long with them.As the reports of the doctors became gradually more favourable, and ourminds were in consequence more free to turn to other subjects, I spoketo Mrs. Temple one day about the picture, saying that it interested me,and asking for some particulars as to the life of Adrian Temple.[DIALOGUE]"My dear child," she said, "I had rather that you should not exhibitany curiosity as to this man, whom I wish that we had not to call anancestor. I know little of him myself, and indeed his life was of sucha nature as no woman, much less a young girl, would desire to be wellacquainted with. He was, I believe, a man of remarkable talent, andspent most of his time between Oxford and Italy, though he visitedRoyston occasionally, and built the large hall here, which we use as adancing-room. Before he was twenty wild stories were prevalent as to his
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]licentious life, and by thirty his name was a by-word among sober andupright people. He had constantly with him at Oxford and on his travelsa boon companion called Jocelyn, who aided him in his wickednesses,until on one of their Italian tours Jocelyn left him suddenly and becamea Trappist monk. It was currently reported that some wild deed of AdrianTemple had shocked even him, and so outraged his surviving instincts ofcommon humanity that he was snatched as a brand from the burning andenabled to turn back even in the full tide of his wickedness. Howeverthat may be, Adrian went on in his evil course without him, and aboutfour years after disappeared. He was last heard of in Naples, and it is
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]believed that he succumbed during a violent outbreak of the plague whichtook place in Italy in the autumn of 1752. That is all I shall tell youof him, and indeed I know little more myself. The only good trait thathas been handed down concerning him is that he was a masterly musician,performing admirably upon the violin, which he had studied under theillustrious Tartini himself. Yet even his art of music, if traditionspeaks the truth, was put by him to the basest of uses."
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]I apologised for my indiscretion in asking her about an unpleasantsubject, and at the same time thanked her for what she had seen fit totell me, professing myself much interested, as indeed I really was.[DIALOGUE]"Was he a handsome man?"[DIALOGUE]"That is a girl's question," she answered, smiling. [DIALOGUE]"He is said tohave been very handsome; and indeed his picture, painted after hisfirst youth was past, would still lead one to suppose so. But hiscomplexion was spoiled, it is said, and turned to deadly white bycertain experiments, which it is neither possible nor seemly for us tounderstand. His face is of that long oval shape of which all the Templesare proud, and he had brown eyes: we sometimes tease Constance, sayingshe is like Adrian."It was indeed true, as I remembered after Mrs. Temple had pointed itout, that Constance had a peculiarly long and oval face. It gave her, Ithink, an air of staid and placid beauty, which formed in my eyes, andperhaps in John's also, one of her greatest attractions.[DIALOGUE]"I do not like even his picture," Mrs. Temple continued, "and strangetales have been narrated of it by idle servants which are not worthrepeating. I have sometimes thought of destroying it; but my latehusband, being a Temple, would never hear of this, or even of removingit from its present place in the gallery; and I should be loath to doanything now contrary to his wishes, once so strongly expressed. It is,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][TRANSITION]besides, very perfect from an artistic point of view, being painted byBattoni, and in his happiest manner.[DIALOGUE]"I could never glean more from Mrs. Temple; but what she told meinterested me deeply. It seemed another link in the chain, thoughI could scarcely tell why, that Adrian Temple should be so great amusician and violinist. I had, I fancy, a dim idea of that malign andoutlawed spirit sitting alone in darkness for a hundred years, until hewas called back by the sweet tones of the Italian music, and the lilt ofthe "Areopagita" that he had loved so long ago.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][RELIEF][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][CHAPTER]CHAPTER IXJohn's recovery, though continuous and satisfactory, was but slow;and it was not until Easter, which fell early, that his health waspronounced to be entirely re-established. The last few weeks of hisconvalescence had proved to all of us a time of thankful and tranquilenjoyment. If I may judge from my own experience, there are few epochsin our life more favourable to the growth of sentiments of affectionand piety, or more full of pleasurable content, than is the period ofgradual recovery from serious illness. The chastening effect of ourrecent sickness has not yet passed away, and we are at once grateful toour Creator for preserving us, and to our friends for the countless actsof watchful kindness which it is the peculiar property of illness toevoke.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][RELIEF]No mother ever nursed a son more tenderly than did Mrs. Temple nursemy brother, and before his restoration to health was complete theattachment between him and Constance had ripened into a formalbetrothal. Such an alliance was, as I have before explained,particularly suitable, and its prospect afforded the most livelypleasure to all those concerned. The month of March had been unusuallymild, and Royston being situated in a valley, as is the case with mosthouses of that date, was well sheltered from cold winds. It had,moreover, a south aspect, and as my brother gradually gathered strength,Constance and he and I would often sit out of doors in the soft springmornings. We put an easy-chair with many cushions for him on the gravel
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]by the front door, where the warmth of the sun was reflected from thered brick walls, and he would at times read aloud to us while we wereengaged with our crochet-work. Mr. Tennyson had just publishedanonymously a first volume of poems, and the sober dignity of his versewell suited our frame of mind at that time. The memory of those pleasantspring mornings, my dear Edward, has not yet passed away, and I canstill smell the sweet moist scent of the violets, and see the brightcolours of the crocus-flowers in the parterres in front of us.John's mind seemed to be gathering strength with his body. He had
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK]apparently flung off the cloud which had overshadowed him before hisillness, and avoided entirely any reference to those unpleasant eventswhich had been previously so constantly in his thoughts. I had, indeed,taken an early opportunity of telling him of my discovery of the pictureof Adrian Temple, as I thought it would tend to show him that at leastthe last appearance of this ghostly form admitted of a rationalexplanation. He seemed glad to hear of this, but did not exhibit thesame interest in the matter that I had expected, and allowed it at onceto drop. Whether through lack of interest, or from a lingering disliketo revisit the spot where he was seized with illness, he did not, Ibelieve, once enter the picture-gallery before he left Royston.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION][TRANSITION][CONTEXT][SURPRISE][CHARACTER]I cannot say as much for myself. The picture of Adrian Temple exerteda curious fascination over me, and I constantly took an opportunity ofstudying it. It was, indeed, a beautiful work; and perhaps becauseJohn's recovery gave a more cheerful tone to my thoughts, or perhapsfrom the power of custom to dull even the keenest antipathies, Igradually got to lose much of the feeling of aversion which it had atfirst inspired. In time the unpleasant look grew less unpleasing, andI noticed more the beautiful oval of the face, the brown eyes, and thefine chiselling of the features. Sometimes, too, I felt a deep pity for
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]so clever a gentleman who had died young, and whose life, were it everso wicked, must often have been also lonely and bitter. More than onceI had been discovered by Mrs. Temple or Constance sitting looking at thepicture, and they had gently laughed at me, saying that I had fallen inlove with Adrian Temple.One morning in early April, when the sun was streaming brightly throughthe oriel, and the picture received a fuller light than usual, itoccurred to me to examine closely the scroll of music painted as hangingover the top of the pedestal on which the figure leant. I had hithertothought that the signs depicted on it were merely such as painters mightconventionally use to represent a piece of musical notation. This has
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]generally been the case, I think, in such pictures as I have ever seenin which a piece of music has been introduced. I mean that while thepainting gives a general representation of the musical staves, noattempt is ever made to paint any definite notes such as would enable anactual piece to be identified. Though, as I write this, I do rememberthat on the monument to Handel in Westminster Abbey there is representeda musical scroll similar to that in Adrian Temple's picture, butactually sculptured with the opening phrase of the majestic melody,[DIALOGUE]"I know that my Redeemer liveth."On this morning, then, at Royston I thought I perceived that there werepainted on the scroll actual musical staves, bars, and notes; and myinterest being excited, I stood upon a chair so as better to examinethem. Though time had somewhat obscured this portion of the picture aswith a veil or film, yet I made out that the painter had intended todepict some definite piece of music. In another moment I saw that the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]air represented consisted of the opening bars of the _Gagliarda_ in thesuite by Graziani with which my brother and I were so well acquainted.Though I believe that I had not seen the volume of music in which thatpiece was contained more than twice, yet the melody was very familiarto me, and I had no difficulty whatever in making myself sure that I hadhere before me the air of the _Gagliarda_ and none other. It was truethat it was only roughly painted, but to one who knew the tune there wasno room left for doubt.Here was a new cause, I will not say for surprise, but for reflection.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONTEXT][TRANSITION]It might, of course, have been merely a coincidence that the artistshould have chosen to paint in this picture this particular piece ofmusic; but it seemed more probable that it had actually been a favouriteair of Adrian Temple, and that he had chosen deliberately to have itrepresented with him. This discovery I kept entirely to myself, notthinking it wise to communicate it to my brother, lest by doing so Imight reawaken his interest in a subject which I hoped he had finallydismissed from his thoughts.In the second week of April the happy party at Royston was dispersed,John returning to Oxford for the summer term, Mrs. Temple making a shortvisit to Scotland, and Constance coming to Worth Maltravers to keep mecompany for a time.It was John's last term at Oxford. He expected to take his degree in
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][FLASHBACK]June, and his marriage with Constance Temple had been provisionallyarranged for the September following. He returned to Magdalen Hallin the best of spirits, and found his rooms looking cheerful withwell-filled flower-boxes in the windows. I shall not detain you with anylong narration of the events of the term, as they have no relation tothe present history. I will only say that I believe my brother appliedhimself diligently to his studies, and took his amusement mostly onhorseback, riding two horses which he had had sent to him from WorthMaltravers.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]About the second week after his return he received a letter from Mr.George Smart to the effect that the Stradivarius violin was now incomplete order. Subsequent examination, Mr. Smart wrote, and theunanimous verdict of connoisseurs whom he had consulted, had merelyconfirmed the views he had at first expressed--namely, that the violinwas of the finest quality, and that my brother had in his possession aunique and intact example of Stradivarius's best period. He had had itproperly strung; and as the bass-bar had never been moved, and was ofa stronger nature than that usual at the period of its manufacture, hehad considered it unnecessary to replace it. If any signs should becomevisible of its being inadequate to support the tension of modernstringing, another could be easily substituted for it at a later date.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]He had allowed a young German _virtuoso_ to play on it, and though thisgentleman was one of the first living performers, and had had anopportunity of handling many splendid instruments, he assured Mr. Smartthat he had never performed on one that could in any way compare withthis. My brother wrote in reply thanking him, and begging that theviolin might be sent to Magdalen Hall.The pleasant musical evenings, however, which John had formerlybeen used to spend in the company of Mr. Gaskell were now entirelypretermitted. For though there was no cause for any diminution offriendship between them, and though on Mr. Gaskell's part there was anardent desire to maintain their former intimacy, yet the two young mensaw less and less of one another, until their intercourse was confinedto an accidental greeting in the street. I believe that during all this
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][ALIEN]time my brother played very frequently on the Stradivarius violin,but always alone. Its very possession seemed to have engendered fromthe first in his mind a secretive tendency which, as I have alreadyobserved, was entirely alien to his real disposition. As he hadconcealed its discovery from his sister, so he had also from his friend,and Mr. Gaskell remained in complete ignorance of the existence of suchan instrument.On the evening of its arrival from London, John seems to have carefullyunpacked the violin and tried it with a new bow of Tourte's make whichhe had purchased of Mr. Smart. He had shut the heavy outside door of his
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]room before beginning to play, so that no one might enter unawares; andhe told me afterwards that though he had naturally expected from theinstrument a very fine tone, yet its actual merits so far exceeded hisanticipations as entirely to overwhelm him. The sound issued from itin a volume of such depth and purity as to give an impression of thepassages being chorded, or even of another violin being played at thesame time. He had had, of course, no opportunity of practising duringhis illness, and so expected to find his skill with the bow somewhatdiminished; but he perceived, on the contrary, that his performance wasgreatly improved, and that he was playing with a mastery and feelingof which he had never before been conscious. While attributing thisimprovement very largely to the beauty of the instrument on which he wasperforming, yet he could not but believe that by his illness, or in someother unexplained way, he had actually acquired a greater freedom ofwrist and fluency of expression, with which reflection he was not alittle elated. He had had a lock fixed on the cupboard in which he had
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][CONFLICT]originally found the violin, and here he carefully deposited it on eachoccasion after playing, before he opened the outer door of his room.So the summer term passed away. The examinations had come in their duetime, and were now over. Both the young men had submitted themselvesto the ordeal, and while neither would of course have admitted asmuch to anyone else, both felt secretly that they had no reason to bedissatisfied with their performance. The results would not be published
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][FLASHBACK]for some weeks to come. The last night of the term had arrived, the lastnight too of John's Oxford career. It was near nine o'clock, but stillquite light, and the rich orange glow of sunset had not yet left thesky. The air was warm and sultry, as on that eventful evening when justa year ago he had for the first time seen the figure or the illusionof the figure of Adrian Temple. Since that time he had played the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DIALOGUE][DIALOGUE]"Areopagita" many, many times; but there had never been any reappearanceof that form, nor even had the once familiar creaking of the wickerchair ever made itself heard. As he sat alone in his room, thinking witha natural melancholy that he had seen the sun set for the last time onhis student life, and reflecting on the possibilities of the futureand perhaps on opportunities wasted in the past, the memory of thatevening last June recurred strongly to his imagination, and he felt anirresistible impulse to play once more the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita." He unlockedthe now familiar cupboard and took out the violin, and never had theexquisite gradations of colour in its varnish appeared to greateradvantage than in the soft mellow light of the fading day. As he beganthe _Gagliarda_ he looked at the wicker chair, half expecting to see aform he well knew seated in it; but nothing of the kind ensued, and heconcluded the "Areopagita" without the occurrence of any unusualphenomenon.It was just at its close that he heard some one knocking at the outerdoor. He hurriedly locked away the violin and opened the [DIALOGUE]"oak." It was
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][TRANSITION]Mr. Gaskell. He came in rather awkwardly, as though not sure whether hewould be welcomed.[DIALOGUE]"Johnnie," he began, and stopped.The force of ancient habit sometimes, dear nephew, leads us unwittinglyto accost those who were once our friends by a familiar or nick-namelong after the intimacy that formerly justified it has vanished. But
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE][CHARACTERIZATION]sometimes we intentionally revert to the use of such a name, not wishingto proclaim openly, as it were, by a more formal address that we are nolonger the friends we once were. I think this latter was the case withMr. Gaskell as he repeated the familiar name."Johnnie, I was passing down New College Lane, and heard the violin fromyour open windows. You were playing the 'Areopagita,' and it all soundedso familiar to me that I thought I must come up. I am not interrupting
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][SURPRISE]you, am I?[DIALOGUE]""No, not at all,[DIALOGUE]" John answered."It is the last night of our undergraduate life, the last night we shallmeet in Oxford as students. To-morrow we make our bow to youth andbecome men. We have not seen much of each other this term at any rate,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM]and I daresay that is my fault. But at least let us part as friends.Surely our friends are not so many that we can afford to fling themlightly away."He held out his hand frankly, and his voice trembled a little as hespoke--partly perhaps from real emotion, but more probably from thefeeling of reluctance which I have noticed men always exhibit todiscovering any sentiment deeper than those usually deemed conventionalin correct society. My brother was moved by his obvious wish to renew
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]their former friendship, and grasped the proffered hand.There was a minute's pause, and then the conversation was resumed, alittle stiffly at first, but more freely afterwards. They spoke on manyindifferent subjects, and Mr. Gaskell congratulated John on the prospectof his marriage, of which he had heard. As he at length rose up to takehis departure, he said, "You must have practised the violin diligentlyof late, for I never knew anyone make so rapid progress with it as youhave done. As I came along I was spellbound by your music. I never
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][FLASHBACK][METAPHOR]before heard you bring from the instrument so exquisite a tone: thechorded passages were so powerful that I believed there had beenanother person playing with you. Your Pressenda is certainly a finerinstrument than I ever imagined.[DIALOGUE]"My brother was pleased with Mr. Gaskell's compliment, and the lattercontinued, "Let me enjoy the pleasure of playing with you once more inOxford; let us play the 'Areopagita.'"And so saying he opened the pianoforte and sat down.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][FLASHBACK][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE]John was turning to take out the Stradivarius when he remembered that hehad never even revealed its existence to Mr. Gaskell, and that if he nowproduced it an explanation must follow. In a moment his mood changed,and with less geniality he excused himself, somewhat awkwardly, fromcomplying with the request, saying that he was fatigued.Mr. Gaskell was evidently hurt at his friend's altered manner, andwithout renewing his petition rose at once from the pianoforte, andafter a little forced conversation took his departure. On leaving heshook my brother by the hand, wished him all prosperity in his marriageand after-life, and said, [DIALOGUE]"Do not entirely forget your old comrade, andremember that if at any time you should stand in need of a true friend,you know where to find him!"John heard his footsteps echoing down the passage and made ahalf-involuntary motion towards the door as if to call him back, but didnot do so, though he thought over his last words then and on asubsequent occasion.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][FLASHBACK][CHAPTER]CHAPTER XThe summer was spent by us in the company of Mrs. Temple and Constance,partly at Royston and partly at Worth Maltravers. John had againhired the cutter-yacht _Palestine_, and the whole party made severalexpeditions in her. Constance was entirely devoted to her lover; herlife seemed wrapped up in his; she appeared to have no existence exceptin his presence.I can scarcely enumerate the reasons which prompted such thoughts, butduring these months I sometimes found myself wondering if John stillreturned her affection as ardently as I knew had once been the case.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]I can certainly call to mind no single circumstance which could justifyme in such a suspicion. He performed punctiliously all those thousandlittle acts of devotion which are expected of an accepted lover; heseemed to take pleasure in perfecting any scheme of enjoyment to amuseher; and yet the impression grew in my mind that he no longer felt thesame heart-whole love to her that she bore him, and that he had himselfshown six months earlier. I cannot say, my dear Edward, how lively wasthe grief that even the suspicion of such a fact caused me, and Icontinually rebuked myself for entertaining for a moment a thought sounworthy, and dismissed it from my mind with reprobation. Alas! ere long
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][FLASHBACK]it was sure again to make itself felt. We had all seen the Stradivariusviolin; indeed it was impossible for my brother longer to conceal itfrom us, as he now played continually on it. He did not recount to usthe story of its discovery, contenting himself with saying that he hadbecome possessed of it at Oxford. We imagined naturally that he hadpurchased it; and for this I was sorry, as I feared Mr. Thoresby, hisguardian, who had given him some years previously an excellent violin byPressenda, might feel hurt at seeing his present so unceremoniously laidaside. None of us were at all intimately acquainted with the fancies of
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]fiddle-collectors, and were consequently quite ignorant of the enormousvalue that fashion attached to so splendid an instrument. Even hadwe known, I do not think that we should have been surprised at Johnpurchasing it; for he had recently come of age, and was in possession ofso large a fortune as would amply justify him in such an indulgence hadhe wished to gratify it. No one, however, could remain unaware of thewonderful musical qualities of the instrument. Its rich and melodioustones would commend themselves even to the most unmusical ear, andformed a subject of constant remark. I noticed also that my brother's
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][RELIEF]knowledge of the violin had improved in a very perceptible manner, forit was impossible to attribute the great beauty and power of his presentperformance entirely to the excellence of the instrument he was using.He appeared more than ever devoted to the art, and would shut himselfup in his room alone for two or more hours together for the purpose ofplaying the violin--a habit which was a source of sorrow to Constance,for he would never allow her to sit with him on such occasions, as shenaturally wished to do.So the summer fled. I should have mentioned that in July, after going upto complete the _viva-voce_ part of their examination, both Mr. Gaskelland John received information that they had obtained [DIALOGUE]"first-classes."The young men had, it appears, done excellently well, and both hadsecured a place in that envied division of the first-class which wascalled [DIALOGUE]"above the line." John's success proved a source of much pleasureto us all, and mutual congratulations were freely exchanged. We were
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]pleased also at Mr. Gaskell's high place, remembering the kindness whichhe had shown us at Oxford in the previous year. I desired to send himmy compliments and felicitations when he should next be writing to him.I did not doubt that my brother would return Mr. Gaskell'scongratulations, which he had already received: he said, however, thathis friend had given no address to which he could write, and so thematter dropped.On the 1st of September John and Constance Temple were married. The
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION]wedding took place at Royston, and by John's special desire (with whichConstance fully agreed) the ceremony was of a strictly private andunpretentious nature. The newly married pair had determined to spendtheir honeymoon in Italy, and left for the Continent in the forenoon.Mrs. Temple invited me to remain with her for the present at Royston,which I was very glad to do, feeling deeply the loss of a favouritebrother, and looking forward with dismay to six weeks of lonelinesswhich must elapse before I should again see him and my dearestConstance.We received news of our travellers about a fortnight afterwards, andthen heard from them at frequent intervals. Constance wrote in the best
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][TRANSITION]of spirits, and with the keenest appreciation. She had never travelledin Switzerland or Italy before and all was enchantingly novel to her.They had journeyed through Basle to Lucerne, spending a few days in thatdelightful spot, and thence proceeding by the Simplon Pass to Lugano andthe Italian lakes. Then we heard that they had gone further south thanhad been at first contemplated; they had reached Rome, and wereintending to go on to Naples.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE][FLASHBACK][CONTEXT][CONFLICT]After the first few weeks we neither of us received any more lettersfrom John. It was always Constance who wrote, and even her lettersgrew very much less frequent than had at first been the case. This wasperhaps natural, as the business of travel no doubt engrossed theirthoughts. But ere long we both perceived that the letters of our deargirl were more constrained and formal than before. It was as if she was
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][SURPRISE]writing now rather to comply with a sense of duty than to give vent tothe light-hearted gaiety and naïve enjoyment which breathed in everyline of her earlier communications. So at least it seemed to us, andagain the old suspicion presented itself to my mind, and I feared thatall was not as it should be.Naples was to be the turning-point of their travels, and we expectedthem to return to England by the end of October. November had arrived,however, and we still had no intimation that their return journey hadcommenced or was even decided on. From John there was no word, and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][DANGER]Constance wrote less often than ever. John, she said, was enrapturedwith Naples and its surroundings; he devoted himself much to the violin,and though she did not say so, this meant, I knew, that she was oftenleft alone. For her own part, she did not think that a continuedresidence in Italy would suit her health; the sudden changes oftemperature tried her, and people said that the airs rising in theevening from the bay were unwholesome.Then we received a letter from her which much alarmed us. It was written
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM][CONFLICT]from Naples and dated October 25. John, she said, had been ailing oflate with nervousness and insomnia. On Wednesday, two days before thedate of her letter, he had suffered all day from a strange restlessness,which increased after they had retired for the evening. He could notsleep and had dressed again, telling her he would walk a little in thenight air to compose himself. He had not returned till near six in the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM]morning, and then was so deadly pale and seemed so exhausted that sheinsisted on his keeping to his bed till she could get medical advice.The doctors feared that he had been attacked by some strange form ofmalarial fever, and said he needed much care. Our anxiety was, however,at least temporarily relieved by the receipt of later tidings whichspoke of John's recovery; but November drew to a close without anydefinite mention of their return having reached us.That month is always, I think, a dreary one in the country. It has
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CONFLICT]neither the brilliant tints of October, nor the cosy jollity ofmid-winter with its Christmas joys to alleviate it. This year it wasmore gloomy than usual. Incessant rain had marked its close, and theRoy, a little brook which skirted the gardens not far from the house,had swollen to unusual proportions. At last one wild night the floodrose so high as to completely cover the garden terraces, working havocin the parterres, and covering the lawns with a thick coat of mud.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][RELIEF][EMOTION]Perhaps this gloominess of nature's outer face impressed itself in asense of apprehension on our spirits, and it was with a feeling of morethan ordinary pleasure and relief that early in December we received aletter dated from Laon, saying that our travellers were already welladvanced on their return journey, and expected to be in England a weekafter the receipt by us of this advice. It was, as usual, Constance whowrote. John begged, she said, that Christmas might be spent at WorthMaltravers, and that we would at once proceed thither to see that allwas in order against their return. They reached Worth about the middleof the month, and were, I need not say, received with the utmostaffection by Mrs. Temple and myself.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]In reply to our inquiries John professed that his health was completelyrestored; but though we could indeed discern no other signs of anyspecial weakness, we were much shocked by his changed appearance. He hadcompletely lost his old healthy and sunburnt complexion, and his face,though not thin or sunken, was strangely pale. Constance assured usthat though in other respects he had apparently recovered, he had neverregained his old colour from the night of his attack of fever at Naples.I soon perceived that her own spirits were not so bright as wasordinarily the case with her; and she exhibited none of the eagerness tonarrate to others the incidents of travel which is generally observablein those who have recently returned from a journey. The cause of this
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]depression was, alas! not difficult to discover, for John's formerabstraction and moodiness seemed to have returned with an increasedforce. It was a source of infinite pain to Mrs. Temple, and perhapseven more so to me, to observe this sad state of things. Constancenever complained, and her affection towards her husband seemed only toincrease in the face of difficulties. Yet the matter was one which could
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]not be hid from the anxious eyes of loving kinswomen, and I believe thatit was the consciousness that these altered circumstances could notbut force themselves upon our notice that added poignancy to my poorsister's grief. While not markedly neglecting her, my brother hadevidently ceased to take that pleasure in her company which mightreasonably have been expected in any case under the circumstances ofa recent marriage, and a thousand times more so when his wife was soloving and beautiful a creature as Constance Temple. He appeared littleexcept at meals, and not even always at lunch, shutting himself up forthe most part in his morning-room or study and playing continually onthe violin. It was in vain that we attempted even by means of his musicto win him back to a sweeter mood. Again and again I begged him to allow
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]me to accompany him on the pianoforte, but he would never do so, alwaysputting me off with some excuse. Even when he sat with us in theevening, he spoke little, devoting himself for the most part to reading.His books were almost always Greek or Latin, so that I am ignorant ofthe subjects of his study; but he was content that either Constance orI should play on the pianoforte, saying that the melody, so far fromdistracting his attention, helped him rather to appreciate what he wasreading. Constance always begged me to allow her to take her place atthe instrument on these occasions, and would play to him sometimes forhours without receiving a word of thanks, being eager even in thisunreciprocated manner to testify her love and devotion to him.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION]Christmas Day, usually so happy a season, brought no alleviation ofour gloom. My brother's reserve continually increased, and even hislongest-established habits appeared changed. He had been always mostobservant of his religious duties, attending divine service with theutmost regularity whatever the weather might be, and saying that it wasa duty a landed proprietor owed as much to his tenantry as himself toset a good example in such matters. Ever since our earliest years heand I had gone morning and afternoon on Sundays to the little church ofWorth, and there sat together in the Maltravers chapel where so many ofour name had sat before us. Here their monuments and achievements stood
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][EMOTION][CONFLICT][TRANSITION]about us on every side, and it had always seemed to me that with theirname and property we had inherited also the obligation to continue thoseacts of piety, in the practice of which so many of them had lived anddied. It was, therefore, a source of surprise and great grief to mewhen on the Sunday after his return my brother omitted all religiousobservances, and did not once attend the parish church. He was notpresent with us at breakfast, ordering coffee and a roll to be taken tohis private sitting-room. At the hour at which we usually set out forchurch I went to his room to tell him that we were all dressed andwaiting for him. I tapped at the door, but on trying to enter found it
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][SURPRISE]locked. In reply to my message he did not open the door, but merelybegged us to go on to church, saying he would possibly follow us later.We went alone, and I sat anxiously in our seat with my eyes fixed on thedoor, hoping against hope that each late comer might be John, but henever came. Perhaps this will appear to you, Edward, a comparativelytrivial circumstance (though I hope it may not), but I assure you thatit brought tears to my eyes. When I sat in the Maltravers chapel and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]thought that for the first time my dear brother had preferred in an openway his convenience or his whim to his duty, and had of set purposeneglected to come to the house of God, I felt a bitter grief that seemedto rise up in my throat and choke me. I could not think of the meaningof the prayers nor join in the singing: and all the time that Mr.Butler, our clergyman, was preaching, a verse of a little piece ofpoetry which I learnt as a girl was running in my head:--  [DIALOGUE]"How easy are the paths of ill;     How steep and hard the upward ways;  A child can roll the stone down hill    That breaks a giant's arm to raise."It seemed to me that our loved one had set his foot upon the downwardslope, and that not all the efforts of those who would have given theirlives to save him could now hold him back.It was even worse on Christmas Day. Ever since we had been confirmedJohn and I had always taken the Sacrament on that happy morning, andafter service he had distributed the Maltravers dole in our chapel.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK][TRANSITION]There are given, as you know, on that day to each of twelve old men £5and a green coat, and a like sum of money with a blue cloth dress to asmany old women. These articles of dress are placed on the altar-tomb ofSir Esmoun de Maltravers, and have been thence distributed from daysimmemorial by the head of our house. Ever since he was twelve years oldit had been my pride to watch my handsome brother doing this deed ofnoble charity, and to hear the kindly words he added with each gift.Alas! alas! it was all different this Christmas. Even on this holy day
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][TRANSITION]my brother did not approach either the altar or the house of God. Tillthen Christmas had always seemed to me to be a day given us from above,that we might see even while on earth a faint glimpse of that serenityand peaceful love which will hereafter gild all days in heaven. Thencovetous men lay aside their greed and enemies their rancour, then warmhearts grow warmer, and Christians feel their common brotherhood. I canscarcely imagine any man so lost or guilty as not to experience on thatday some desire to turn back to the good once more, as not to recognisesome far-off possibility of better things. It was thoughts free and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][EMOTION]happy such as these that had previously come into my heart in theservice of Christmas Day, and been particularly associated with thefamiliar words that we all love so much. But that morning the harmonieswere all jangled: it seemed as though some evil spirit was pouringwicked thoughts into my ear; and even while children sang [DIALOGUE]"Hark theherald angels," I thought I could hear through it all a melody whichI had learnt to loathe, the _Gagliarda_ of the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita."Poor Constance! Though her veil was down, I could see her tears, andknew her thoughts must be sadder even than mine: I drew her hand towardsme, and held it as I would a child's. After the service was over a newtrial awaited us. John had made no arrangement for the distribution of
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]the dole. The coats and dresses were all piled ready on Sir Esmoun'stomb, and there lay the little leather pouches of money, but there wasno one to give them away. Mr. Butler looked puzzled, and approachingus, said he feared Sir John was ill--had he made no provision for thedistribution? Pride kept back the tears which were rising fast, andI said my brother was indeed unwell, that it would be better for Mr.Butler to give away the dole, and that Sir John would himself visit therecipients during the week. Then we hurried away, not daring to watch
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE]the distribution of the dole, lest we should no longer be able to masterour feelings, and should openly betray our agitation.From one another we no longer attempted to conceal our grief. It seemedas though we had all at once resolved to abandon the farce of pretendingnot to notice John's estrangement from his wife, or of explaining awayhis neglectful and unaccountable treatment of her.I do not think that three poor women were ever so sad on Christmas Daybefore as were we on our return from church that morning. None of us had
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE]seen my brother, but about five in the afternoon Constance went to hisroom, and through the locked door begged piteously to see him. After afew minutes he complied with her request and opened the door. The exactcircumstances of that interview she never revealed to me, but I knewfrom her manner when she returned that something she had seen or heardhad both grieved and frightened her. She told me only that she had flungherself in an agony of tears at his feet, and kneeling there, weary andbroken-hearted, had begged him to tell her if she had done aught amiss,had prayed him to give her back his love. To all this he answered
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][CONFLICT][MONSTER]little, but her entreaties had at least such an effect as to induce himto take his dinner with us that evening. At that meal we tried to putaside our gloom, and with feigned smiles and cheerful voices, from whichthe tears were hardly banished, sustained a weary show of conversationand tried to wile away his evil mood. But he spoke little; and whenFoster, my father's butler, put on the table the three-handledMaltravers' loving-cup that he had brought up Christmas by Christmas forthirty years, my brother merely passed it by without a taste. I saw byFoster's face that the master's malady was no longer a secret even fromthe servants.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][CONTEXT][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][PERSPECTIVE]I shall not harass my own feelings nor yours, my dear Edward, byentering into further details of your father's illness, for such it wasobvious his indisposition had become. It was the only consolation, andthat was a sorry one, that we could use with Constance, to persuade herthat John's estrangement from her was merely the result or manifestationof some physical infirmity. He obviously grew worse from week to week,and his treatment of his wife became colder and more callous. We hadused all efforts to persuade him to take a change of air--to go toRoyston for a month, and place himself under the care of Dr. Dobie. Mrs.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][EMOTION][TRANSITION][ACTION]Temple had even gone so far as to write privately to this physician,telling him as much of the case as was prudent, and asking his advice.Not being aware of the darker sides of my brother's ailment, Dr. Dobiereplied in a less serious strain than seemed to us convenient, butrecommended in any case a complete change of air and scene.It was, therefore, with no ordinary pleasure and relief that weheard my brother announce quite unexpectedly one morning in March thathe had made up his mind to seek change, and was going to leave almostimmediately for the Continent. He took his valet Parnham with him, andquitted Worth one morning before lunch, bidding us an unceremoniousadieu, though he kissed Constance with some apparent tenderness. It was
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]the first time for three months, she confessed to me afterwards, thathe had shown her even so ordinary a mark of affection; and her woundedheart treasured up what she hoped would prove a token of returning love.He had not proposed to take her with him, and even had he done so, weshould have been reluctant to assent, as signs were not wanting that itmight have been imprudent for her to undertake foreign travel at thatperiod.For nearly a month we had no word of him. Then he wrote a short note toConstance from Naples, giving no news, and indeed, scarce speaking ofhimself at all, but mentioning as an address to which she might write ifshe wished, the Villa de Angelis at Posilipo. Though his letter was cold
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][RELIEF][EMOTION]and empty, yet Constance was delighted to get it, and wrote henceforthherself nearly every day, pouring out her heart to him, and retailingsuch news as she thought would cheer him.[CHAPTER]CHAPTER XIA month later Mrs. Temple wrote to John warning him of the state inwhich Constance now found herself, and begging him to return at leastfor a few weeks in order that he might be present at the time of herconfinement. Though it would have been in the last degree unkind, oreven inhuman, that a request of this sort should have been refused, yetI will confess to you that my brother's recent strangeness had preparedme for behaviour on his part however wild; and it was with a feeling ofextreme relief that I heard from Mrs. Temple a little later that she hadreceived a short note from John to say that he was already on his returnjourney. I believe Mrs. Temple herself felt as I did in the matter,though she said nothing.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION]When he returned we were all at Royston, whither Mrs. Temple had takenConstance to be under Dr. Dobie's care. We found John's physicalappearance changed for the worse. His pallor was as remarkable asbefore, but he was visibly thinner; and his strange mental abstractionand moodiness seemed little if any abated. At first, indeed, he greetedConstance kindly or even affectionately. She had been in a terrible
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][CHARACTER][EMOTION][SURPRISE][DANGER][CHARACTERIZATION][FLASHBACK][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE]state of anxiety as to the attitude he would assume towards her, andthis mental strain affected prejudicially her very delicate bodilycondition. His kindness, of an ordinary enough nature indeed, seemedto her yearning heart a miracle of condescending love, and she wastransported with the idea that his affection to her, once so sincere,was indeed returning. But I grieve to say that his manner thawed onlyfor a very short time, and ere long he relapsed into an attitude ofcomplete indifference. It was as if his real, true, honest, and lovingcharacter had made one more vigorous effort to assert itself,--asthough it had for a moment broken through the hard and selfish crustthat was forming around him; but the blighting influence which was atwork proved seemingly too strong for him to struggle against, andriveted its chains again upon him with a weight heavier than before.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][DANGER]That there was some malefic influence, mental or physical, thus workingon him, no one who had known him before could for a moment doubt. Butwhile Mrs. Temple and I readily admitted this much, we were entirelyunable even to form a conjecture as to its nature. It is true thatMrs. Temple's fancy suggested that Constance had some rival in hisaffections; but we rejected such a theory almost before it was proposed,feeling that it was inherently improbable, and that, had it been true,we could not have remained entirely unaware of the circumstances whichhad conduced to such a state of things. It was this inexplicable natureof my brother's affliction that added immeasurably to our grief. If we
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][RELIEF][EMOTION]could only have ascertained its cause we might have combated it; butas it was, we were fighting in the dark, as against some enemy who wasassaulting us from an obscurity so thick that we could not see his form.Of any mental trouble we thus knew nothing, nor could we say that mybrother was suffering from any definite physical ailment, except thathe was certainly growing thinner.Your birth, my dear Edward, followed very shortly. Your poor motherrallied in an unusually short time, and was filled with rapture at thenew treasure which was thus given as a solace to her afflictions. Your
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]father exhibited little interest at the event, though he sat nearly halfan hour with her one evening, and allowed her even to stroke his hairand caress him as in time long past. Although it was now the height ofsummer he seldom left the house, sitting much and sleeping in his ownroom, where he had a field-bed provided for him, and continuallydevoting himself to the violin.One evening near the end of July we were sitting after dinner in thedrawing-room at Royston, having the French windows looking on to thelawn open, as the air was still oppressively warm. Though things wereproceeding as indifferently as before, we were perhaps less cast downthan usual, for John had taken his dinner with us that evening. This was
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONTEXT][PROBLEM]a circumstance now, alas! sufficiently uncommon, for he had nearly allhis meals served for him in his own rooms. Constance, who was once moredownstairs, sat playing at the pianoforte, performing chiefly melodiesby Scarlatti or Bach, of which old-fashioned music she knew her husbandto be most fond. A later fashion, as you know, has revived thecultivation of these composers, but at the time of which I write theirworks were much less commonly known. Though she was more than a passablemusician, he would not allow her to accompany him; indeed he never nowperformed at all on the violin before us, reserving his practiceentirely for his own chamber. There was a pause in the music while
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][EMOTION][RELIEF]coffee was served. My brother had been sitting in an easy-chair apartreading some classical work during his wife's performance, and takinglittle notice of us. But after a while he put down his book and said,[DIALOGUE]"Constance, if you will accompany me, I will get my violin and play alittle while." I cannot say how much his words astonished us. It wasso simple a matter for him to say, and yet it filled us all with anunspeakable joy. We concealed our emotion till he had left the room to
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][SURPRISE]get his instrument, then Constance showed how deeply she was gratifiedby kissing first her mother and then me, squeezing my hand but sayingnothing. In a minute he returned, bringing his violin and a music-book.By the soiled vellum cover and the shape I perceived instantly that itwas the book containing the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita." I had not seen it for neartwo years, and was not even aware that it was in the house, but Iknew at once that he intended to play that suite. I entertained anunreasoning but profound aversion to its melodies, but at that momentI would have welcomed warmly that or any other music, so that he wouldonly choose once more to show some thought for his neglected wife. He
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION]put the book open at the [DIALOGUE][DIALOGUE]"Areopagita" on the desk of the pianoforte,and asked her to play it with him. She had never seen the music before,though I believe she was not unacquainted with the melody, as she hadheard him playing it by himself, and once heard, it was not easilyforgotten.They began the "Areopagita" suite, and at first all went well. Thetone of the violin, and also, I may say with no undue partiality,my brother's performance, were so marvellously fine that though ourthoughts were elsewhere when, the music commenced, in a few seconds theywere wholly engrossed in the melody, and we sat spellbound. It was as
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]if the violin had become suddenly endowed with life, and was singingto us in a mystical language more deep and awful than any human words.Constance was comparatively unused to the figuring of the _bassocontinuo_, and found some trouble in reading it accurately, especiallyin manuscript; but she was able to mask any difficulty she may have haduntil she came to the _Gagliarda_. Here she confessed to me her thoughtsseemed against her will to wander, and her attention became too deeplyriveted on her husband's performance to allow her to watch her own.She made first one slight fault, and then growing nervous, another, andanother. Suddenly John stopped and said brusquely, "Let Sophy play,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][DANGER]I cannot keep time with you." Poor Constance! The tears came swiftlyto my own eyes when I heard him speak so thoughtlessly to her, and I wasalmost provoked to rebuke him openly. She was still weak from her recentillness; her nerves were excited by the unusual pleasure she felt inplaying once more with her husband, and this sudden shattering of herhopes of a renewed tenderness proved more than she could bear: she puther head between her hands upon the keyboard and broke into a paroxysmof tears.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]We both ran to her; but while we were attempting to assuage her grief,John shut his violin into its case, took the music-book under his arm,and left the room without saying a word to any of us, not even to theweeping girl, whose sobs seemed as though they would break her heart.We got her put to bed at once, but it was some hours before herconvulsive sobbing ceased. Mrs. Temple had administered to her asoothing draught of proved efficacy, and after sitting with her tillafter one o'clock, I left her at last dozing off to sleep, and myselfsought repose. I was quite wearied out with the weight of my anxiety,and with the crushing bitterness of seeing my dearest Constance'sfeelings so wounded. Yet in spite, or rather perhaps on account of my
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]trouble, my head had scarcely touched my pillow ere I fell into a deepsleep.A room in the south wing had been converted for the nonce into anursery, and for the convenience of being near her infant Constance nowslept in a room adjoining. As this portion of the house was somewhatisolated, Mrs. Temple had suggested that I should keep her daughtercompany, and occupy a room in the same passage, only removed a fewdoors, and this I had accordingly done. I was aroused from my sleep thatnight by some one knocking gently on the door of my bedroom; but it wassome seconds before my thoughts became sufficiently awake to allow me toremember where I was. There was some moonlight, but I lighted a candle,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][EMOTION][ACTION][PROBLEM]and looking at my watch saw that it was two o'clock. I concluded thateither Constance or her baby was unwell, and that the nurse needed myassistance. So I left my bed, and moving to the door, asked softly whowas there. It was, to my surprise, the voice of Constance that replied,[DIALOGUE]"O Sophy, let me in."In a second I had opened the door, and found my poor sister wearing onlyher night-dress, and standing in the moonlight before me.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]She looked frightened and unusually pale in her white dress and with thecold gleam of the moon upon her. At first I thought she was walking inher sleep, and perhaps rehearsing again in her dreams the troubles whichdogged her waking footsteps. I took her gently by the arm, saying,[DIALOGUE]"Dearest Constance, come back at once to bed; you will take cold."She was not asleep, however, but made a motion of silence, and said ina terrified whisper, [DIALOGUE]"Hush; do you hear nothing?" There was somethingso vague and yet so mysterious in the question and in her evidentperturbation that I was infected too by her alarm. I felt myself shiver,as I strained my ear to catch if possible the slightest sound. But a
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]complete silence pervaded everything: I could hear nothing.[DIALOGUE]"Can you hear it?" she said again. All sorts of images of ill presentedthemselves to my imagination: I thought the baby must be ill with croup,and that she was listening for some stertorous breath of anguish; andthen the dread came over me that perhaps her sorrows had been too muchfor her, and that reason had left her seat. At that thought the marrowfroze in my bones.[DIALOGUE]"Hush," she said again; and just at that moment, as I strained my ears,I thought I caught upon the sleeping air a distant and very faintmurmur.[DIALOGUE]"Oh, what is it, Constance?" I said. [DIALOGUE]"You will drive me mad;" and whileI spoke the murmur seemed to resolve itself into the vibration, feltalmost rather than heard, of some distant musical instrument. I stepped
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][DANGER][PROBLEM]past her into the passage. All was deadly still, but I could perceivethat music was being played somewhere far away; and almost at the sameminute my ears recognised faintly but unmistakably the _Gagliarda_ ofthe [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita."I have already mentioned that for some reason which I can scarcelyexplain, this melody was very repugnant to me. It seemed associated insome strange and intimate way with my brother's indisposition and moraldecline. Almost at the moment that I had heard it first two years ago,peace seemed to have risen up and left our house, gathering her skirtsabout her, as we read that the angels left the Temple at the siege ofJerusalem. And now it was even more detestable to my ears, recalling as
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]it did too vividly the cruel events of the preceding evening.[DIALOGUE]"John must be sitting up playing," I said.[DIALOGUE]"Yes," she answered; [DIALOGUE]"but why is he in this part of the house, and whydoes he always play _that_ tune?"It was if some irresistible attraction drew us towards the music.Constance took my hand in hers and we moved together slowly down thepassage. The wind had risen, and though there was a bright moon, herbeams were constantly eclipsed by driving clouds. Still there was lightenough to guide us, and I extinguished the candle. As we reached the end
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]of the passage the air of the _Gagliarda_ grew more and more distinct.Our passage opened on to a broad landing with a balustrade, and from oneside of it ran out the picture-gallery which you know.I looked at Constance significantly. It was evident that John wasplaying in this gallery. We crossed the landing, treading carefully and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT]making no noise with our naked feet, for both of us had been too excitedeven to think of putting on shoes.We could now see the whole length of the gallery. My poor brother sat inthe oriel window of which I have before spoken. He was sitting so as toface the picture of Adrian Temple, and the great windows of the orielflung a strong light on him. At times a cloud hid the moon, and all was
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK]plunged in darkness; but in a moment the cold light fell full on him,and we could trace every feature as in a picture. He had evidently notbeen to bed, for he was fully dressed, exactly as he had left us in thedrawing-room five hours earlier when Constance was weeping over histhoughtless words. He was playing the violin, playing with a passion andreckless energy which I had never seen, and hope never to see again.Perhaps he remembered that this spot was far removed from the restof the house, or perhaps he was careless whether any were awake andlistening to him or not; but it seemed to me that he was playing witha sonorous strength greater than I had thought possible for a singleviolin. There came from his instrument such a volume and torrent of
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]melody as to fill the gallery so full, as it were, of sound that itthrobbed and vibrated again. He kept his eyes fixed on something at theopposite side of the gallery; we could not indeed see on what, but Ihave no doubt at all that it was the portrait of Adrian Temple. His gazewas eager and expectant, as though he were waiting for something tooccur which did not.I knew that he had been growing thin of late, but this was the firsttime I had realised how sunk were the hollows of his eyes and howhaggard his features had become. It may have been some effect of
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][HORROR]moonlight which I do not well understand, but his fine-cut face, once sohandsome, looked on this night worn and thin like that of an old man.He never for a moment ceased playing. It was always one same dreadfulmelody, the _Gagliarda_ of the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita," and he repeated it timeafter time with the perseverance and apparent aimlessness of anautomaton.He did not see us, and we made no sign, standing afar off in silenthorror at that nocturnal sight. Constance clutched me by the arm: she
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][EMOTION]was so pale that I perceived it even in the moonlight. [DIALOGUE]"Sophy," shesaid, [DIALOGUE]"he is sitting in the same place as on the first night when hetold me how he loved me." I could answer nothing, my voice was frozenin me. I could only stare at my brother's poor withered face, realisingthen for the first time that he must be mad, and that it was thehaunting of the _Gagliarda_ that had made him so.We stood there I believe for half an hour without speech or motion, andall the time that sad figure at the end of the gallery continued itsperformance. Suddenly he stopped, and an expression of frantic despair
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][CONFLICT]came over his face as he laid down the violin and buried his head in hishands. I could bear it no longer. [DIALOGUE]"Constance," I said, [DIALOGUE]"come back tobed. We can do nothing," So we turned and crept away silently as we hadcome. Only as we crossed the landing Constance stopped, and looked backfor a minute with a heart-broken yearning at the man she loved. He had
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][DANGER][WEAPON]taken his hands from his head, and she saw the profile of his face clearcut and hard in the white moonlight.It was the last time her eyes ever looked upon it.She made for a moment as if she would turn back and go to him, but hercourage failed her, and we went on. Before we reached her room we heardin the distance, faintly but distinctly, the burden of the _Gagliarda_.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][CHAPTER]CHAPTER XIIThe next morning, my maid brought me a hurried note written in pencil bymy brother. It contained only a few lines, saying that he found that hiscontinued sojourn at Royston was not beneficial to his health, and haddetermined to return to Italy. If we wished to write, letters wouldreach him at the Villa de Angelis: his valet Parnham was to follow himthither with his baggage as soon as it could be got together. This wasall; there was no word of adieu even to his wife.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][ACTION][PROBLEM][GHOST]We found that he had never gone to bed that night. But in the earlymorning he had himself saddled his horse _Sentinel_ and ridden in toDerby, taking the early mail thence to London. His resolve to leaveRoyston had apparently been arrived at very suddenly, for so far as wecould discover, he had carried no luggage of any kind. I could not helplooking somewhat carefully round his room to see if he had taken theStradivarius violin. No trace of it or even of its case was to be seen,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]though it was difficult to imagine how he could have carried it with himon horseback. There was, indeed, a locked travelling-trunk which Parnhamwas to bring with him later, and the instrument might, of course, havebeen in that; but I felt convinced that he had actually taken it withhim in some way or other, and this proved afterwards to have been thecase.I shall draw a veil, my dear Edward, over the events which immediatelyfollowed your father's departure. Even at this distance of time thememory is too inexpressibly bitter to allow me to do more than brieflyallude to them.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][DANGER][CONFLICT]A fortnight after John's departure, we left Royston and removed toWorth, wishing to get some sea-air, and to enjoy the late summer of thesouth coast. Your mother seemed entirely to have recovered from herconfinement, and to be enjoying as good health as could be reasonablyexpected under the circumstances of her husband's indisposition. Butsuddenly one of those insidious maladies which are incidental to womenin her condition seized upon her. We had hoped and believed that allsuch period of danger was already happily past; but, alas! it was not
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DANGER][PROBLEM][DEATH][HORROR]so, and within a few hours of her first seizure all realised how seriouswas her case. Everything that human skill can do under such conditionswas done, but without avail. Symptoms of blood-poisoning showedthemselves, accompanied with high fever, and within a week she was inher coffin.Though her delirium was terrible to watch, yet I thank God to thisday, that if she was to die, it pleased Him to take her while in anunconscious condition. For two days before her death she recognised
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][EMOTION][CONFLICT]no one, and was thus spared at least the sadness of passing from lifewithout one word of kindness or even of reconciliation from her unhappyhusband.The communication with a place so distant as Naples was not then to bemade under fifteen or twenty days, and all was over before we could hopethat the intelligence even of his wife's illness had reached John. BothMrs. Temple and I remained at Worth in a state of complete prostration,awaiting his return. When more than a month had passed without hisarrival, or even a letter to say that he was on his way, our anxietytook a new turn, as we feared that some accident had befallen him, orthat the news of his wife's death, which would then be in his hands,had so seriously affected him as to render him incapable of taking anyaction. To repeated subsequent communications we received no answer;
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR]but at last, to a letter which I wrote to Parnham, the servant replied,stating that his master was still at the Villa de Angelis, and in acondition of health little differing from that in which he left Royston,except that he was now slightly paler if possible and thinner. It wasnot till the end of November that any word came from him, and then hewrote only one page of a sheet of note-paper to me in pencil, making noreference whatever to his wife's death, but saying that he should notreturn for Christmas, and instructing me to draw on his bankers for anymoneys that I might require for household purposes at Worth.I need not tell you the effect that such conduct produced on Mrs.Temple and myself; you can easily imagine what would have been your ownfeelings in such a case. Nor will I relate any other circumstances whichoccurred at this period, as they would have no direct bearing upon mynarrative. Though I still wrote to my brother at frequent intervals, as
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]not wishing to neglect a duty, no word from him ever came in reply.About the end of March, indeed, Parnham returned to Worth Maltravers,saying that his master had paid him a half-year's wages in advance,and then dispensed with his services. He had always been an excellentservant, and attached to the family, and I was glad to be able to offerhim a suitable position with us at Worth until his master should return.He brought disquieting reports of John's health, saying that he wasgrowing visibly weaker. Though I was sorely tempted to ask him many
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][EMOTION]questions as to his master's habits and way of life, my pride forbade meto do so. But I heard incidentally from my maid that Parnham had toldher Sir John was spending money freely in alterations at the Villa deAngelis, and had engaged Italians to attend him, with which his Englishvalet was naturally much dissatisfied.So the spring passed and the summer was well advanced.On the last morning of July I found waiting for me on thebreakfast-table an envelope addressed in my brother's hand. I opened
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][FLASHBACK][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][SURPRISE]it hastily. It only contained a few words, which I have before me as Iwrite now. The ink is a little faded and yellow, but the impression itmade is yet vivid as on that summer morning.  [DIALOGUE]"MY DEAREST SOPHY," it began,--"Come to me here at once, if possible,  or it may be too late. I want to see you. They say that I am ill, and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION]  too weak to travel to England.    [DIALOGUE]"Your loving brother,    "JOHN.[DIALOGUE]"There was a great change in the style, from the cold and conventionalnotes that he had hitherto sent at such long intervals; from the stiff"Dear Sophia[DIALOGUE]" and "Sincerely yours" to which, I grieve to say, I hadgrown accustomed. Even the writing itself was altered. It was more thebold boyish hand he wrote when first he went to Oxford, than the smallercramped and classic character of his later years. Though it was a little
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION]matter enough, God knows, in comparison with his grievous conduct, yetit touched me much that he should use again the once familiar [DIALOGUE]"DearestSophy," and sign himself [DIALOGUE]"my loving brother." I felt my heart go outtowards him; and so strong is woman's affection for her own kin, that Ihad already forgotten any resentment and reprobation in my great pityfor the poor wanderer, lying sick perhaps unto death and alone in aforeign land.I took his note at once to Mrs. Temple. She read it twice or thrice,trying to take in the meaning of it. Then she drew me to her and,kissing me, said, "Go to him at once, Sophy. Bring him back to Worth;
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][ACTION]try to bring him back to the right way."I ordered my things to be packed, determining to drive to Southamptonand take train thence to London; and at the same time Mrs. Temple gaveinstructions that all should be prepared for her own return to Roystonwithin a few days. I knew she did not dare to see John after herdaughter's death.I took my maid with me, and Parnham to act as courier. At London we
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]hired a carriage for the whole journey, and from Calais posted direct toNaples. We took the short route by Marseilles and Genoa, and travelledfor seventeen days without intermission, as my brother's note made medesirous of losing no time on the way. I had never been in Italy before;but my anxiety was such that my mind was unable to appreciate eitherthe beauty of the scenery or the incidents of travel. I can, in fact,remember nothing of our journey now, except the wearisome andinterminable jolting over bad roads and the insufferable heat. It was
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM]the middle of August in an exceptionally warm summer, and after passingGenoa the heat became almost tropical. There was no relief even atnight, for the warm air hung stagnant and suffocating, and the inside ofmy travelling coach was often like a furnace.We were at last approaching the conclusion of our journey, and had leftRome behind us. The day that we set out from Aversa was the hottest thatI have ever felt, the sun beating down with an astonishing power evenin the early hours, and the road being thick with a white and blindingdust. It was soon after midnight that our carriage began rattling over
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]the great stone blocks with which the streets of Naples are paved. Thesuburbs that we at first passed through were, I remember, in darknessand perfect quiet; but after traversing the heart of the city andreaching the western side, we suddenly found ourselves in the midstof an enormous and very dense crowd. There were lanterns everywhere,and interminable lanes of booths, whose proprietors were praisingtheir wares with loud shouts; and here acrobats, jugglers, minstrels,black-vested priests, and blue-coated soldiers mingled with a vast crowdwhose numbers at once arrested the progress of the carriage. Though itwas so late of a Sunday night, all seemed here awake and busy as atnoonday. Oil-lamps with reeking fumes of black smoke flung a glare over
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][EMOTION]the scene, and the discordant cries and chattering conversation unitedin so deafening a noise as to make me turn faint and giddy, wearied as Ialready was with long travelling. Though I felt that intense eagernessand expectation which the approaching termination of a tedious journeyinspires, and was desirous of pushing forward with all imaginabledespatch, yet here our course was sadly delayed. The horses could onlyproceed at the slowest of foot-paces, and we were constantly broughtto a complete stop for some minutes before the post-boy could forcea passage through the unwilling crowd. This produced a feeling ofirritation, and despair of ever reaching my destination; and the mirthand careless hilarity of the people round us chafed with bitter contraston my depressed spirits. I inquired from the post-boy what was the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]origin of so great a commotion, and understood him to say in reply thatit was a religious festival held annually in honour of [DIALOGUE]"Our Lady ofthe Grotto." I cannot, however, conceive of any truly religious personcountenancing such a gathering, which seemed to me rather like theunclean orgies of a heathen deity than an act of faith of Christianpeople. This disturbance occasioned us so serious a delay, that as wewere climbing the steep slope leading up to Posilipo it was alreadythree in the morning and the dawn was at hand.After mounting steadily for a long time we began to rapidly descend, andjust as the sun came up over the sea we arrived at the Villa de Angelis.I sprang from the carriage, and passing through a trellis of vines,reached the house. A man-servant was in waiting, and held the door open
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]for me; but he was an Italian, and did not understand me when I askedin English where Sir John Maltravers was. He had evidently, however,received instructions to take me at once to my brother, and led the wayto an inner part of the house. As we proceeded I heard the sound of arich alto voice singing very sweetly to a mandoline some soothing orreligious melody. The servant pulled aside a heavy curtain and I foundmyself in my brother's room. An Italian youth sat on a stool near the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]door, and it was he who had been singing. At a few words from John,addressed to him in his own language, he set down his mandoline and leftthe room, pulling to the curtain and shutting a door behind it.The room looked directly on to the sea: the villa was, in fact, builtupon rocks at the foot of which the waves lapped. Through two foldingwindows which opened on to a balcony the early light of the summermorning streamed in with a rosy flush. My brother sat on a low couch
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]or sofa, propped up against a heap of pillows, with a rug of brilliantcolours flung across his feet and legs. He held out his arms to me, andI ran to him; but even in so brief an interval I had perceived that hewas terribly weak and wasted.All my memories of his past faults had vanished and were dead in thatsad aspect of his worn features, and in the conviction which I felt,even from the first moment, that he had but little time longer to remainwith us. I knelt by him on the floor, and with my arms round his neck,embraced him tenderly, not finding any place for words, but only sobbingin great anguish. Neither of us spoke, and my weariness from long travel
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][EMOTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][PERSPECTIVE]and the strangeness of the situation caused me to feel that paralysingsensation of doubt as to the reality of the scene, and even of my ownexistence, which all, I believe, have experienced at times of severemental tension. That I, a plain English girl, should be kneeling herebeside my brother in the Italian dawn; that I should read, as Ibelieved, on his young face the unmistakable image and superscriptionof death; and reflect that within so few months he had married, hadwrecked his home, that my poor Constance was no more;--these thingsseemed so unrealisable that for a minute I felt that it must all be anightmare, that I should immediately wake with the fresh salt air ofthe Channel blowing through my bedroom window at Worth, and find I hadbeen dreaming. But it was not so; the light of day grew stronger andbrighter, and even in my sorrow the panorama of the most beautiful spoton earth, the Bay of Naples, with Vesuvius lying on the far side, asseen then from these windows, stamped itself for ever on my mind. It wasunreal as a scene in some brilliant dramatic spectacle, but, alas! no
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]unreality was here. The flames of the candles in their silver sconceswaxed paler and paler, the lines and shadows on my brother's face grewdarker, and the pallor of his wasted features showed more striking inthe bright rays of the morning sun.[CHAPTER]CHAPTER XIIII had spent near a week at the Villa de Angelis. John's manner to mewas most tender and affectionate; but he showed no wish to refer to thetragedy of his wife's death and the sad events which had preceded it, orto attempt to explain in any way his own conduct in the past. Nor did
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]I ever lead the conversation to these topics; for I felt that even ifthere were no other reason, his great weakness rendered it inadvisableto introduce such subjects at present, or even to lead him to speak atall more than was actually necessary. I was content to minister to himin quiet, and infinitely happy in his restored affection. He seemeddesirous of banishing from his mind all thoughts of the last few months,but spoke much of the years before he had gone to Oxford, and of happydays which we had spent together in our childhood at Worth Maltravers.His weakness was extreme, but he complained of no particular maladyexcept a short cough which troubled him at night.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][TRANSITION]I had spoken to him of his health, for I could see that his state wassuch as to inspire anxiety, and begged that he would allow me to see ifthere was an English doctor at Naples who could visit him. This he wouldnot assent to, saying that he was quite content with the care of anItalian doctor who visited him almost daily, and that he hoped to beable, under my escort, to return within a very short time to England.[DIALOGUE]"I shall never be much better, dear Sophy," he said one day. "The doctortells me that I am suffering from some sort of consumption, and that Imust not expect to live long. Yet I yearn to see Worth once more, and tofeel again the west winds blowing in the evening across from Portland,and smell the thyme on the Dorset downs. In a few days I hope perhaps to
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]be a little stronger, and I then wish to show you a discovery which Ihave made in Naples. After that you may order them to harness thehorses, and carry me back to Worth Maltravers."I endeavoured to ascertain from Signor Baravelli, the doctor, somethingas to the actual state of his patient; but my knowledge of Italian wasso slight that I could neither make him understand what I would be at,nor comprehend in turn what he replied, so that this attempt wasrelinquished. From my brother himself I gathered that he had begun tofeel his health much impaired as far back as the early spring, butthough his strength had since then gradually failed him, he had not beenconfined to the house until a month past. He spent the day and often
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]the night reclining on his sofa and speaking little. He had apparentlylost the taste for the violin which had once absorbed so much of hisattention; indeed I think the bodily strength necessary for itsperformance had probably now failed him. The Stradivarius instrumentlay near his couch in its case; but I only saw the latter open on oneoccasion, I think, and was deeply thankful that John no longer tookthe same delight as heretofore in the practice of this art,--not onlybecause the mere sound of his violin was now fraught to me with suchbitter memories, but also because I felt sure that its performance hadin some way which I could not explain a deleterious effect upon himself.He exhibited that absence of vitality which is so often noticeable inthose who have not long to live, and on some days lay in a state ofsemi-lethargy from which it was difficult to rouse him. But at other
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]times he suffered from a distressing restlessness which forbade him tosit still even for a few minutes, and which was more painful to watchthan his lethargic stupor. The Italian boy, of whom I have alreadyspoken, exhibited an untiring devotion to his master which won my heart.His name was Raffaelle Carotenuto, and he often sang to us in theevening, accompanying himself on the mandoline. At nights, too, whenJohn could not sleep, Raffaelle would read for hours till at lasthis master dozed off. He was well educated, and though I could not
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]understand the subject he read, I often sat by and listened, beingcharmed with his evident attachment to my brother and with the melodiousintonation of a sweet voice.My brother was nervous apparently in some respects, and would never beleft alone even for a few minutes; but in the intervals while Raffaellewas with him I had ample opportunity to examine and appreciate thebeauties of the Villa de Angelis. It was built, as I have said, on somerocks jutting into the sea, just before coming to the Capo di Posilipoas you proceed from Naples. The earlier foundations were, I believe,originally Roman, and upon them a modern villa had been constructedin the eighteenth century, and to this again John had made importantadditions in the past two years. Looking down upon the sea from the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][WITCH]windows of the villa, one could on calm days easily discern the remainsof Roman piers and moles lying below the surface of the transparentwater; and the tufa-rock on which the house was built was burrowed withthose unintelligible excavations of a classic date so common in theneighbourhood. These subterraneous rooms and passages, while theyaroused my curiosity, seemed at the same time so gloomy and repellentthat I never explored them. But on one sunny morning, as I walked atthe foot of the rocks by the sea, I ventured into one of the larger ofthese chambers, and saw that it had at the far end an opening leadingapparently to an inner room. I had walking with me an old Italian femaleservant who took a motherly interest in my proceedings, and who, relyingprincipally upon a very slight knowledge of English, had constitutedherself my body-guard. Encouraged by her presence, I penetrated this
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][DANGER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][SUSPENSE][HORROR]inner room and found that it again opened in turn into another, and soon until we had passed through no less than four chambers.They were all lighted after a fashion through vent-holes which somewhereor other reached the outer air, but the fourth room opened into a fifthwhich was unlighted. My companion, who had been showing signs of alarmand an evident reluctance to proceed further, now stopped abruptly andbegged me to return. It may have been that her fear communicated itselfto me also, for on attempting to cross the threshold and explore thedarkness of the fifth cell, I was seized by an unreasoning panic and bythe feeling of undefined horror experienced in a nightmare. I hesitated
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][DANGER][EMOTION][CONFLICT][HORROR]for an instant, but my fear became suddenly more intense, and springingback, I followed my companion, who had set out to run back to the outerair. We never paused until we stood panting in the full sunlight by thesea. As soon as the maid had found her breath, she begged me never to gothere again, explaining in broken English that the caves were known inthe neighbourhood as the [DIALOGUE]"Cells of Isis," and were reputed to be hauntedby demons. This episode, trifling as it may appear, had so great aneffect upon me that I never again ventured on to the lower walk whichran at the foot of the rocks by the sea.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CONFLICT]In the house above, my brother had built a large hall after the ancientRoman style, and this, with a dining-room and many other chambers, weredecorated in the fashion of those discovered at Pompeii. They had beenfurnished with the utmost luxury, and the beauty of the paintings,furniture, carpets, and hangings was enhanced by statues in bronze andmarble. The villa, indeed, and its fittings were of a kind to whichI was little used, and at the same time of such beauty that I neverceased to regard all as a creation of an enchanter's wand, or as thedrop-scene to some drama which might suddenly be raised and disappearfrom my sight. The house, in short, together with its furniture, was,I believe, intended to be a reproduction of an ancient Roman villa,and had something about it repellent to my rustic and insular ideas.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][EMOTION][METAPHOR][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]In the contemplation of its perfection I experienced a curious mentalsensation, which I can only compare to the physical oppression producedon some persons by the heavy and cloying perfume of a bouquet ofgardenias or other too highly scented exotics.In my brother's room was a medieval reproduction in mellow alabaster ofa classic group of a dolphin encircling a Cupid. It was, I think, thefairest work of art I ever saw, but it jarred upon my sense of proprietythat close by it should hang an ivory crucifix. I would rather, I think,have seen all things material and pagan entirely, with every view ofthe future life shut out, than have found a medley of things sacred andprofane, where the emblems of our highest hopes and aspirations wereplaced in insulting indifference side by side with the embodied forms ofsensuality. Here, in this scene of magical beauty, it seemed to me for
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]a moment that the years had rolled back, that Christianity had still tofight with a _living_ Paganism, and that the battle was not yet won. Itwas the same all through the house; and there were many other matterswhich filled me with regret, mingled with vague and apprehensivesurmises which I shall not here repeat.At one end of the house was a small library, but it contained few worksexcept Latin and Greek classics. I had gone thither one day to look fora book that John had asked for, when in turning out some drawers I founda number of letters written from Worth by my lost Constance to herhusband. The shock of being brought suddenly face to face with a
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK]handwriting that evoked memories at once so dear and sad was in itselfa sharp one; but its bitterness was immeasurably increased by thediscovery that not one of these envelopes had ever been opened. Whilethat dear heart, now at rest, was pouring forth her love and sorrow tothe ears that should have been above all others ready to receive them,her letters, as they arrived, were flung uncared for, unread, evenunopened, into any haphazard receptacle.The days passed one by one at the Villa de Angelis with but littleincident, nor did my brother's health either visibly improve or decline.Though the weather was still more than usually warm, a grateful breezecame morning and evening from the sea and tempered the heat so much asto render it always supportable. John would sometimes in the evening sit
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR]propped up with cushions on the trellised balcony looking towards Baia,and watch the fishermen setting their nets. We could hear the melodyof their deep-voiced songs carried up on the night air. [DIALOGUE]"It was here,Sophy," my brother said, as we sat one evening looking on a scene likethis,--"It was here that the great epicure Pollio built himself a famoushouse, and called it by two Greek words meaning a 'truce to care,' fromwhich our name of Posilipo is derived. It was his _sans-souci_, and herehe cast aside his vexations; but they were lighter than mine. Posilipo
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][ACTION][EMOTION][DANGER][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK]has brought no cessation of care to me. I do not think I shall find anytruce this side the grave; and beyond, who knows?"This was the first time John had spoken in this strain, and he seemedstirred to an unusual activity, as though his own words had suddenlyreminded him how frail was his state. He called Raffaelle to him anddespatched him on an errand to Naples. The next morning he sent for me
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][TRANSITION]earlier than usual, and begged that a carriage might be ready by six inthe evening, as he desired to drive into the city. I tried at first todissuade him from his project, urging him to consider his weak state ofhealth. He replied that he felt somewhat stronger, and had somethingthat he particularly wished me to see in Naples. This done, it would bebetter to return at once to England: he could, he thought, bear thejourney if we travelled by very short stages.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CHAPTER]CHAPTER XIVShortly after six o'clock in the evening we left the Villa de Angelis.The day had been as usual cloudlessly serene; but a gentle sea-breeze,of which I have spoken, rose in the afternoon and brought with it arefreshing coolness. We had arranged a sort of couch in the landau withmany cushions for my brother, and he mounted into the carriage with moreease than I had expected. I sat beside him, with Raffaelle facing meon the opposite seat. We drove down the hill of Posilipo through the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][EMOTION]ilex-trees and tamarisk-bushes that then skirted the sea, and so intothe town. John spoke little except to remark that the carriage was aneasy one. As we were passing through one of the principal streets hebent over to me and said, [DIALOGUE]"You must not be alarmed if I show you to-daya strange sight. Some women might perhaps be frightened at what we aregoing to see; but my poor sister has known already so much of troublethat a light thing like this will not affect her." In spite of hisencomiums upon my supposed courage, I felt alarmed and agitated by hiswords. There was a vagueness in them which frightened me, and bred thatindefinite apprehension which is often infinitely more terrifying thanthe actual object which inspires it. To my inquiries he would give no
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]further response than to say that he had whilst at Posilipo made someinvestigations in Naples leading to a strange discovery, which he wasanxious to communicate to me. After traversing a considerable distance,we had penetrated apparently into the heart of the town. The streetsgrew narrower and more densely thronged; the houses were more dirty andtumbledown, and the appearance of the people themselves suggested thatwe had reached some of the lower quarters of the city. Here we passedthrough a further network of small streets of the name of which I tookno note, and found ourselves at last in a very dark and narrow lanecalled the _Via del Giardino_. Although my brother had, so far as I had
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]observed, given no orders to the coachman, the latter seemed to haveno difficulty in finding his way, driving rapidly in the Neapolitanfashion, and proceeding direct as to a place with which he was alreadyfamiliar.In the Via del Giardino the houses were of great height, and overhungthe street so as nearly to touch one another. It seemed that thisquarter had been formerly inhabited, if not by the aristocracy, at leastby a class very much superior to that which now lived there; and manyof the houses were large and dignified, though long since parcelledout into smaller tenements. It was before such a house that we at lastbrought up. Here must have been at one time a house or palace of some
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]person of distinction, having a long and fine façade adorned withdelicate pilasters, and much florid ornamentation of the Renaissanceperiod. The ground-floor was divided into a series of small shops, andits upper storeys were evidently peopled by sordid families of thelowest class. Before one of these little shops, now closed and havingits windows carefully blocked with boards, our carriage stopped.Raffaelle alighted, and taking a key from his pocket unlocked the door,and assisted John to leave the carriage. I followed, and directly we had
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][TRANSITION][PERSPECTIVE]crossed the threshold, the boy locked the door behind us, and I heardthe carriage drive away.We found ourselves in a narrow and dark passage, and as soon as my eyesgrew accustomed to the gloom I perceived there was at the end of it alow staircase leading to some upper room, and on the right a door whichopened into the closed shop. My brother moved slowly along the passage,and began to ascend the stairs. He leant with one hand on Raffaelle'sarm, taking hold of the balusters with the other. But I could see
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION]that to mount the stairs cost him considerable effort, and he pausedfrequently to cough and get his breath again. So we reached a landingat the top, and found ourselves in a small chamber or magazine directlyover the shop. It was quite empty except for a few broken chairs, andappeared to be a small loft formed by dividing what had once been ahigh room into two storeys, of which the shop formed the lower. A longwindow, which had no doubt once formed one of several in the walls ofthis large room, was now divided across its width by the flooring, andwith its upper part served to light the loft, while its lower panesopened into the shop. The ceiling was, in consequence of these
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][RELIEF][EMOTION][SURPRISE]alterations, comparatively low, but though much mutilated, retainedevident traces of having been at one time richly decorated, with theraised mouldings and pendants common in the sixteenth century. At oneend of the loft was a species of coved and elaborately carved dado, ofwhich the former use was not obvious; but the large original room hadwithout doubt been divided in length as well as in height, as thelath-and-plaster walls at either end of the loft had evidently been nopart of the ancient structure.My brother sat down in one of the old chairs, and seemed to becollecting his strength before speaking. My anxiety was momentarilyincreasing, and it was a great relief when he began, talking in a lowvoice as one that had much to say and wished to husband his strength.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DIALOGUE]"I do not know whether you will recollect my having told you ofsomething Mr. Gaskell once said about the music of Graziani's'Areopagita' suite. It had always, he used to say, a curious effect uponhis imagination, and the melody of the _Gagliarda_ especially called upto his thoughts in some strange way a picture of a certain hall wherepeople were dancing. He even went so far as to describe the generalappearance of the room itself, and of the persons who were dancingthere."[DIALOGUE]"Yes," I answered, [DIALOGUE]"I remember your telling me of this;" and indeed mymemory had in times past so often rehearsed Mr. Gaskell's descriptionthat, although I had not recently thought of it, its chief featuresimmediately returned to my mind.[DIALOGUE]"He described it," my brother continued, [DIALOGUE]"as a long hall with an arcadeof arches running down one side, of the fantastic Gothic of theRenaissance. At the end was a gallery or balcony for the musicians,which on its front carried a coat of arms."I remembered this perfectly and told John so, adding that the shieldbore a cherub's head fanning three lilies on a golden field.[DIALOGUE]"It is strange," John went on, [DIALOGUE]"that the description of a scene whichour friend thought a mere effort of his own imagination has impresseditself so deeply on both our minds. But the picture which he drew wasmore than a fancy, for we are at this minute in the very hall of hisdream."I could not gather what my brother meant, and thought his reason wasfailing him; but he continued, [DIALOGUE]"This miserable floor on which we standhas of course been afterwards built in; but you see above you the oldceiling, and here at the end was the musicians' gallery with the shieldupon its front."He pointed to the carved and whitewashed dado which had hitherto sopuzzled me. I stepped up to it, and although the lath-and-plasterpartition wall was now built around it, it was clear that its curvedoutline might very easily, as John said, have formed part of the frontof a coved gallery. I looked closer at the relief-work which had adornedit. Though the edges were all rubbed off, and the mouldings in somecases entirely removed, I could trace without difficulty a shieldin the midst; and a more narrow inspection revealed underneath thewhitewash, which had partly peeled away, enough remnants of colour toshow that it had certainly been once painted gold and borne a cherub'shead with three lilies.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DIALOGUE]"That is the shield of the old Neapolitan house of Doma-Cavalli," mybrother continued; [DIALOGUE]"they bore a cherub's head fanning three lilies on ashield or. It was in the balcony behind this shield, long since blockedup as you see, that the musicians sat on that ball night of whichGaskell dreamt. From it they looked down on the hall below where dancingwas going forward, and I will now take you downstairs that you may seeif the description tallies."So saying, he raised himself, and descending the stairs with much lessdifficulty than he had shown in mounting them, flung open the doorwhich I had seen in the passage and ushered us into the shop on theground-floor. The evening light had now faded so much that we couldscarcely see even in the passage, and the shop having its windowsbarricaded with shutters, was in complete darkness. Raffaelle, however,struck a match and lit three half-burnt candles in a tarnished sconceupon the wall.The shop had evidently been lately in the occupation of a wine-seller,and there were still several empty wooden wine-butts, and some brokenflasks on shelves. In one corner I noticed that the earth which formed
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EXPOSITION][SURPRISE][METAPHOR][CONTEXT]the floor had been turned up with spades. There was a small heap ofmould, and a large flat stone was thus exposed below the surface. Thisstone had an iron ring attached to it, and seemed to cover the apertureof a well, or perhaps a vault. At the back of the shop, and furthestfrom the street, were two lofty arches separated by a column in themiddle, from which the outside casing had been stripped.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK][CHARACTERIZATION][CONTEXT]To these arches John pointed and said, "That is a part of the arcadewhich once ran down the whole length of the hall. Only these two archesare now left, and the fine marbles which doubtless coated the outside ofthis dividing pillar have been stripped off. On a summer's night aboutone hundred years ago dancing was going on in this hall. There were adozen couples dancing a wild step such as is never seen now. The tune
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DEATH][DANGER][CONFLICT][METAPHOR][SURPRISE][EMOTION][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][CHARACTERIZATION][TRANSITION][CONTEXT][MURDER]that the musicians were playing in the gallery above was taken from the'Areopagita' suite of Graziani. Gaskell has often told me that whenhe played it the music brought with it to his mind a sense of someimpending catastrophe, which culminated at the end of the first movementof the _Gagliarda_. It was just at that moment, Sophy, that anEnglishman who was dancing here was stabbed in the back and foullymurdered."I had scarcely heard all that John had said, and had certainly not beenable to take in its import; but without waiting to hear if I should sayanything, he moved across to the uncovered stone with the ring in it.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][ACTION][TRANSITION]Exerting a strength which I should have believed entirely impossible inhis weak condition, he applied to the stone a lever which lay ready athand. Raffaelle at the same time seized the ring, and so they were ablebetween them to move the covering to one side sufficiently to allowaccess to a small staircase which thus appeared to view. The stairwas a winding one, and once led no doubt to some vaults below theground-floor. Raffaelle descended first, taking in his hand the sconceof three candles, which he held above his head so as to fling a lightdown the steps. John went next, and then I followed, trying to support
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]my brother if possible with my hand. The stairs were very dry, andon the walls there was none of the damp or mould which fancy usuallyassociates with a subterraneous vault. I do not know what it was Iexpected to see, but I had an uneasy feeling that I was on the brink ofsome evil and distressing discovery. After we had descended about twentysteps we could see the entry to some vault or underground room, and itwas just at the foot of the stairs that I saw something lying, as thelight from the candles fell on it from above. At first I thought it was
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][EMOTION]a heap of dust or refuse, but on looking closer it seemed rather abundle of rags. As my eyes penetrated the gloom, I saw there was aboutit some tattered cloth of a faded green tint, and almost at the sameminute I seemed to trace under the clothes the lines or dimensions of ahuman figure. For a moment I imagined it was some poor man lying facedownwards and bent up against the wall. The idea of a man or of a deadbody being there shocked me violently, and I cried to my brother, [DIALOGUE]"Tellme, what is it?" At that instant the light from. Raffaelle's candles
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][DANGER][EMOTION][MURDER]fell in a somewhat different direction. It lighted up the white bowlof a human skull, and I saw that what I had taken for a man's form wasinstead that of a clothed skeleton. I turned faint and sick for aninstant, and should have fallen had it not been for John, who put hisarm about me and sustained me with an unexpected strength.[DIALOGUE]"God help us!" I exclaimed, [DIALOGUE]"let us go. I cannot bear this; there arefoul vapours here; let us get back to the outer air."He took me by the arm, and pointing at the huddled heap, said, "Do youknow whose bones those are? That is Adrian Temple. After it was all
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][DANGER][EMOTION][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][CHARACTERIZATION][FLASHBACK][HORROR]over, they flung his body down the steps, dressed in the clothes hewore."At that name, uttered in so ill-omened a place, I felt a fresh access ofterror. It seemed as though the soul of that wicked man must be stillhovering over his unburied remains, and boding evil to us all. A chillcrept over me, the light, the walls, my brother, and Raffaelle all swamround, and I sank swooning on the stairs.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]When I returned fully to my senses we were in the landau again makingour way back to the Villa de Angelis.[CHAPTER]CHAPTER XVThe next morning my health and strength were entirely restored to me,but my brother, on the contrary, seemed weak and exhausted from hisefforts of the previous night. Our return journey to the Villa deAngelis had passed in complete silence. I had been too much perturbedto question him on the many points relating to the strange events as towhich I was still completely in the dark, and he on his side had shownno desire to afford me any further information. When I saw him the next
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DANGER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT]morning he exhibited signs of great weakness, and in response to aneffort on my part to obtain some explanation of the discovery of AdrianTemple's body, avoided an immediate reply, promising to tell me all heknew after our return to Worth Maltravers.I pondered over the last terrifying episode very frequently in my ownmind, and as I thought more deeply of it all, it seemed to me that theoutlines of some evil history were piece by piece developing themselves,that I had almost within my grasp the clue that would make all plain,and that had eluded me so long. In that dim story Adrian Temple, themusic of the _Gagliarda_, my brother's fatal passion for the violin,all seemed to have some mysterious connection, and to have conspired inworking John's mental and physical ruin. Even the Stradivarius violinbore a part in the tragedy, becoming, as it were, an actively malignantspirit, though I could not explain how, and was yet entirely unaware ofthe manner in which it had come into my brother's possession.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE][RESOLUTION][TRANSITION]I found that John was still resolved on an immediate return to England.His weakness, it is true, led me to entertain doubts as to how he wouldsupport so long a journey; but at the same time I did not feel justifiedin using any strong efforts to dissuade him from his purpose. Ireflected that the more wholesome air and associations of England wouldcertainly re-invigorate both body and mind, and that any extra strainbrought about by the journey would soon be repaired by the comforts andwatchful care with which we could surround him at Worth Maltravers.So the first week in October saw us once more with our faces set towardsEngland. A very comfortable swinging-bed or hammock had been arranged
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION]for John in the travelling carriage, and we determined to avoid fatigueas much as possible by dividing our journey into very short stages. Mybrother seemed to have no intention of giving up the Villa de Angelis.It was left complete with its luxurious furniture, and with all hisservants, under the care of an Italian _maggior-duomo_. I felt that asJohn's state of health forbade his entertaining any hope of an immediatereturn thither, it would have been much better to close entirely hisItalian house. But his great weakness made it impossible for him to
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][CONFLICT][SURPRISE]undertake the effort such a course would involve, and even if my ownignorance of the Italian tongue had not stood in the way, I was far tooeager to get my invalid back to Worth to feel inclined to import anyfurther delay, while I should myself adjust matters which were after allcomparatively trifling. As Parnham was now ready to discharge his usualduties of valet, and as my brother seemed quite content that he shoulddo so, Raffaelle was of course to be left behind. The boy had quite wonmy heart by his sweet manners, combined with his evident affection tohis master, and in making him understand that he was now to leave us,I offered him a present of a few pounds as a token of my esteem. Herefused, however, to touch this money, and shed tears when he learntthat he was to be left in Italy, and begged with many protestations ofdevotion that he might be allowed to accompany us to England. My heart
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]was not proof against his entreaties, supported by so many signs ofattachment, and it was agreed, therefore, that he should at least attendus as far as Worth Maltravers. John showed no surprise at the boy beingwith us; indeed I never thought it necessary to explain that I hadoriginally purposed to leave him behind.Our journey, though necessarily prolonged by the shortness of itsstages, was safely accomplished. John bore it as well as I could havehoped, and though his body showed no signs of increased vigour, hismind, I think, improved in tone, at any rate for a time. From the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][TRANSITION][CHARACTER][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][SURPRISE][ACTION][CONFLICT]evening on which he had shown me the terrible discovery in the Viadel Giardino he seemed to have laid aside something of his care anddepression. He now exhibited little trace of the moroseness andselfishness which had of late so marred his character; and though henaturally felt severely at times the fatigue of travel, yet we had nolonger to dread any relapse into that state of lethargy or stupor whichhad so often baffled every effort to counteract it at Posilipo. Somefeeling of superstitious aversion had prompted me to give orders thatthe Stradivarius violin should be left behind at Posilipo. But beforeparting my brother asked for it, and insisted that it should be broughtwith him, though I had never heard him play a note on it for many weeks.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]He took an interest in all the petty episodes of travel, and certainlyappeared to derive more entertainment from the journey than was to havebeen anticipated in his feeble state of health.To the incidents of the evening spent in the Via del Giardino he made noallusion of any kind, nor did I for my part wish to renew memories ofso unpleasant a nature. His only reference occurred one Sunday eveningas we were passing a small graveyard near Genoa. The scene apparentlyturned his thoughts to that subject, and he told me that he had takenmeasures before leaving Naples to ensure that the remains of AdrianTemple should be decently interred in the cemetery of Santa Bibiana.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]His words set me thinking again, and unsatisfied curiosity promptedme strongly to inquire of him how he had convinced himself that theskeleton at the foot of the stairs was indeed that of Adrian Temple. ButI restrained myself, partly from a reliance on his promise that he wouldone day explain the whole story to me, and partly being very reluctantto mar the enjoyment of the peaceful scenes through which we werepassing, by the introduction of any subjects so jarring and painful asthose to which I have alluded.We reached London at last, and here we stopped a few days to make somenecessary arrangements before going down to Worth Maltravers. I hadurged upon John during the journey that immediately on his arrival inLondon he should obtain the best English medical advice as to his ownhealth. Though he at first demurred, saying that nothing more was to be
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]done, and that he was perfectly satisfied with the medicine given him byDr. Baravelli, which he continued to take, yet by constant entreaty Iprevailed upon him to accede to so reasonable a request. Dr. Frobisher,considered at that time the first living authority on diseases of thebrain and nerves, saw him on the morning after our arrival. He was goodenough to speak with me at some length after seeing my brother, and togive me many hints and recipes whereby I might be better enabled tonurse the invalid.Sir John's condition, he said, was such as to excite serious anxiety.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]There was, indeed, no brain mischief of any kind to be discovered, buthis lungs were in a state of advanced disease, and there were signs ofgrave heart affection. Yet he did not bid me to despair, but said thatwith careful nursing life might certainly be prolonged, and even somemeasure of health in time restored. He asked me more than once if I knewof any trouble or worry that preyed upon Sir John's mind. Were therefinancial difficulties; had he been subjected to any mental shock; hadhe received any severe fright? To all this I could only reply in the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT]negative. At the same time I told Dr. Frobisher as much of John'shistory as I considered pertinent to the question. He shook his headgravely, and recommended that Sir John should remain for the present inLondon, under his own constant supervision. To this course my brotherwould by no means consent. He was eager to proceed at once to his own
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]house, saying that if necessary we could return again to London forChristmas. It was therefore agreed that we should go down to WorthMaltravers at the end of the week.Parnham had already left us for Worth in order that he might haveeverything ready against his master's return, and when we arrived wefound all in perfect order for our reception. A small morning-room nextto the library, with a pleasant south aspect and opening on to theterrace, had been prepared for my brother's use, so that he might avoidthe fatigue of mounting stairs, which Dr. Frobisher considered veryprejudicial in his present condition. We had also purchased in London a
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION]chair fitted with wheels, which enabled him to be moved, or, if he werefeeling equal to the exertion, to move himself, without difficulty, fromroom to room.His health, I think, improved; very gradually, it is true, but stillsufficiently to inspire me with hope that he might yet be spared to us.Of the state of his mind or thoughts I knew little, but I could see thathe was at times a prey to nervous anxiety. This showed itself in theharassed look which his pale face often wore, and in his marked disliketo being left alone. He derived, I think, a certain pleasure from the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE][CONTEXT][FLASHBACK]quietude and monotony of his life at Worth, and perhaps also from theconsciousness that he had about him loving and devoted hearts. I sayhearts, for every servant at Worth was attached to him, remembering thegreat consideration and courtesy of his earlier years, and grieving tosee his youthful and once vigorous frame reduced to so sad a strait.Books he never read himself, and even the charm of Raffaelle's readingseemed to have lost its power; though he never tired of hearing the boysing, and liked to have him sit by his chair even when his eyes wereshut and he was apparently asleep. His general health seemed to me tochange but little either for better or worse. Dr. Frobisher had led me
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]to expect some such a sequel. I had not concealed from him that I hadat times entertained suspicions as to my brother's sanity; but he hadassured me that they were totally unfounded, that Sir John's brain wasas clear as his own. At the same time he confessed that he could notaccount for the exhausted vitality of his patient,--a condition which hewould under ordinary circumstances have attributed to excessive study orsevere trouble. He had urged upon me the pressing necessity for completerest, and for much sleep. My brother never even incidentally referred to
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DEATH][SURPRISE][CHARACTER]his wife, his child, or to Mrs. Temple, who constantly wrote to me fromRoyston, sending kind messages to John, and asking how he did. Thesemessages I never dared to give him, fearing to agitate him, or retardhis recovery by diverting his thoughts into channels which mustnecessarily be of a painful character. That he should never even mentionher name, or that of Lady Maltravers, led me to wonder sometimes if oneof those curious freaks of memory which occasionally accompany a severeillness had not entirely blotted out from his mind the recollection ofhis marriage and of his wife's death. He was unable to consider anyaffairs of business, and the management of the estate remained as ithad done for the last two years in the hands of our excellent agent,Mr. Baker.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]But one evening in the early part of December he sent Raffaelle aboutnine o'clock, saying he wished to speak to me. I went to his room, andwithout any warning he began at once, [DIALOGUE]"You never show me my boy now,Sophy; he must be grown a big child, and I should like to see him."Much startled by so unexpected a remark, I replied that the child wasat Royston under the care of Mrs. Temple, but that I knew that if itpleased him to see Edward she would be glad to bring him down to Worth.He seemed gratified with this idea, and begged me to ask her to do so,desiring that his respects should be at the same time conveyed to her. Ialmost ventured at that moment to recall his lost wife to his thoughts,by saying that his child resembled her strongly; for your likeness atthat time, and even now, my dear Edward, to your poor mother was verymarked. But my courage failed me, and his talk soon reverted to an
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][FLASHBACK][EMOTION][PERSPECTIVE][SETTING][PROBLEM]earlier period, comparing the mildness of the month to that of the firstwinter which he spent at Eton. His thoughts, however, must, I fancy,have returned for a moment to the days when he first met your mother,for he suddenly asked, [DIALOGUE]"Where is Gaskell? Why does he never come to seeme?" This brought quite a new idea to my mind. I fancied it might do mybrother much good to have by him so sensible and true a friend as I knewMr. Gaskell to be. The latter's address had fortunately not slipped frommy memory, and I put all scruples aside and wrote by the next mail tohim, setting forth my brother's sad condition, saying that I had heardJohn mention his name, and begging him on my own account to be so goodas to help us if possible and come to us in this hour of trial. Though
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]he was so far off as Westmorland, Mr. Gaskell's generosity broughthim at once to our aid, and within a week he was installed at WorthMaltravers, sleeping, in the library, where we had arranged a bed athis own desire, so that he might be near his sick friend.His presence was of the utmost assistance to us all. He treated Johnat once with the tenderness of a woman and the firmness of a cleverand strong man. They sat constantly together in the mornings, and Mr.Gaskell told me John had not shown with him the same reluctance to talkfreely of his married life as he had discovered with me. The tenor of
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]his communications I cannot guess, nor did I ever ask; but I knew thatMr. Gaskell was much affected by them.John even amused himself now at times by having Mr. Baker into his roomsof a morning, that the management of the estate might be discussed withhis friend; and he also expressed his wish to see the family solicitor,as he desired to draw his will. Thinking that any diversion of thisnature could not but be beneficial to him, we sent to Dorchester for oursolicitor, Mr. Jeffreys, who together with his clerk spent three nightsat Worth, and drew up a testament for my brother.So time went on, and the year was drawing to a close.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][DANGER][SURPRISE][HORROR]It was Christmas Eve, and I had gone to bed shortly after twelveo'clock, having an hour earlier bid good night to John and Mr. Gaskell.The long habit of watching with, or being in charge of an invalid atnight, had made my ears extraordinarily quick to apprehend even theslightest murmur. It must have been, I think, near three in the morningwhen I found myself awake and conscious of some unusual sound. It waslow and far off, but I knew instantly what it was, and felt a chokingsensation of fear and horror, as if an icy hand had gripped my throat,on recognising the air of the _Gagliarda_. It was being played on the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]violin, and a long way off, but I knew that tune too well to permit ofmy having any doubt on the subject.Any trouble or fear becomes, as you will some day learn, my dear nephew,immensely intensified and exaggerated at night. It is so, I suppose,because our nerves are in an excited condition, and our brain notsufficiently awake to give a due account of our foolish imaginations. Ihave myself many times lain awake wrestling in thought with difficultieswhich in the hours of darkness seemed insurmountable, but with the dawnresolved themselves into merely trivial inconveniences. So on this
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK][EMOTION][METAPHOR][PROBLEM]night, as I sat up in bed looking into the dark, with the sound of thatmelody in my ears, it seemed as if something too terrible for words hadhappened; as though the evil spirit, which we had hoped was exorcised,had returned with others sevenfold more wicked than himself, and takenup his abode again with my lost brother. The memory of another nightrushed to my mind when Constance had called me from my bed at Royston,and we had stolen together down the moonlit passages with the lilt ofthat wicked music vibrating on the still summer air. Poor Constance! Shewas in her grave now; yet _her_ troubles at least were over, but here,as by some bitter irony, instead of carol or sweet symphony, it was the_Gagliarda_ that woke me from my sleep on Christmas morning.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DANGER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][HORROR]I flung my dressing-gown about me, and hurried through the corridor anddown the stairs which led to the lower storey and my brother's room.As I opened my bedroom door the violin ceased suddenly in the middleof a bar. Its last sound was not a musical note, but rather a horriblescream, such as I pray I may never hear again. It was a sound such as awounded beast might utter. There is a picture I have seen of Blake's,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]showing the soul of a strong wicked man leaving his body at death. Thespirit is flying out through the window with awful staring eyes, aghastat the desolation into which it is going. If in the agony of dissolutionsuch a lost soul could utter a cry, it would, I think, sound like thewail which I heard from the violin that night.Instantly all was in absolute stillness. The passages were silent and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]ghostly in the faint light of my candle; but as I reached the bottomof the stairs I heard the sound of other footsteps, and Mr. Gaskell metme. He was fully dressed, and had evidently not been to bed. He took mekindly by the hand and said, "I feared you might be alarmed by the soundof music. John has been walking in his sleep; he had taken out hisviolin and was playing on it in a trance. Just as I reached him
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][RELIEF]something in it gave way, and the discord caused by the slackenedstrings roused him at once. He is awake now and has returned to bed.Control your alarm for his sake and your own. It is better that heshould not know you have been awakened."
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]He pressed my hand and spoke a few more reassuring words, and I wentback to my room still much agitated, and yet feeling half ashamed forhaving shown so much anxiety with so little reason.That Christmas morning was one of the most beautiful that I everremember. It seemed as though summer was so loath to leave our sunnyDorset coast that she came back on this day to bid us adieu before herfinal departure. I had risen early and had partaken of the Sacramentat our little church. Dr. Butler had recently introduced this early
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][RELIEF][TRANSITION]service, and though any alteration of time-honoured customs in suchmatters might not otherwise have met with my approval, I was glad toavail myself of the privilege on this occasion, as I wished in any caseto spend the later morning with my brother. The singular beauty of theearly hours, and the tranquillising effect of the solemn service broughtback serenity to my mind, and effectually banished from it all memoriesof the preceding night. Mr. Gaskell met me in the hall on my return, andafter greeting me kindly with the established compliments of the day,inquired after my health, and hoped that the disturbance of my slumberon the previous night had not affected me injuriously. He had good newsfor me: John seemed decidedly better, was already dressed, and desired,as it was Christmas morning, that we would take our breakfast with himin his room.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR][EMOTION]To this, as you may imagine, I readily assented. Our breakfast partypassed off with much content, and even with some quiet humour, Johnsitting in his easy-chair at the head of the table and wishing us thecompliments of the season. I found laid in my place a letter from Mrs.Temple greeting us all (for she knew Mr. Gaskell was at Worth), andsaying that she hoped to bring little Edward to us at the New Year.My brother seemed much pleased at the prospect of seeing his son, andthough perhaps it was only imagination, I fancied he was particularlygratified that Mrs. Temple herself was to pay us a visit. She had not
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]been to Worth since the death of Lady Maltravers.Before we had finished breakfast the sun beat on the panes with anunusual strength and brightness. His rays cheered us all, and it was sowarm that John first opened the windows, and then wheeled his chair onto the walk outside. Mr. Gaskell brought him a hat and mufflers, and wesat with him on the terrace basking in the sun. The sea was still and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]glassy as a mirror, and the Channel lay stretched before us like a floorof moving gold. A rose or two still hung against the house, and thesun's rays reflected from the red sandstone gave us a December morningmore mild and genial than many June days that I have known in the north.We sat for some minutes without speaking, immersed in our ownreflections and in the exquisite beauty of the scene.The stillness was broken by the bells of the parish church ringing forthe morning service. There were two of them, and their sound, familiar
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][DEATH]to us from childhood, seemed like the voices of old friends. John lookedat me and said with a sigh, [DIALOGUE]"I should like to go to church. It is longsince I was there. You and I have always been on Christmas mornings,Sophy, and Constance would have wished it had she been with us."His words, so unexpected and tender, filled my eyes with tears; nottears of grief, but of deep thankfulness to see my loved one turningonce more to the old ways. It was the first time I had heard him speakof Constance, and that sweet name, with the infinite pathos of herdeath, and of the spectacle of my brother's weakness, so overcame methat I could not speak. I only pressed his hand and nodded. Mr. Gaskell,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION]who had turned away for a minute, said he thought John would take noharm in attending the morning service provided the church were warm.On this point I could reassure him, having found it properly heatedeven in the early morning.Mr. Gaskell was to push John's chair, and I ran off to put on my cloak,with my heart full of profound thankfulness for the signs of returninggrace so mercifully vouchsafed to our dear sufferer on this happy day.I was ready dressed and had just entered the library when Mr. Gaskellstepped hurriedly through the window from the terrace. "John has
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DANGER][EMOTION][DEATH][ACTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK][HORROR]fainted![DIALOGUE]" he said. "Run for some smelling salts and call Parnham!"There was a scene of hurried alarm, giving place ere long to terrifieddespair. Parnham mounted a horse and set off at a wild gallop to Swanageto fetch Dr. Bruton; but an hour before he returned we knew the worst.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]My brother was beyond the aid of the physician: his wrecked life hadreached a sudden term!       *       *       *       *       *I have now, dear Edward, completed the brief narrative of some of thefacts attending the latter years of your father's life. The motive whichhas induced me to commit them to writing has been a double one. I amanxious to give effect as far as may be to the desire expressed moststrongly to Mr. Gaskell by your father, that you should be put inpossession of these facts on your coming of age. And for my own part I
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM][DANGER]think it better that you should thus hear the plain truth from me, lestyou should be at the mercy of haphazard reports, which might at any timereach you from ignorant or interested sources. Some of the circumstanceswere so remarkable that it is scarcely possible to suppose that theywere not known, and most probably frequently discussed, in so large anestablishment as that of Worth Maltravers. I even have reason to believethat exaggerated and absurd stories were current at the time of SirJohn's death, and I should be grieved to think that such foolish talesmight by any chance reach your ear without your having any sure means ofdiscovering where the truth lay. God knows how grievous it has been tome to set down on paper some of the facts that I have here narrated. You
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]as a dutiful son will reverence the name even of a father whom you neverknew; but you must remember that his sister did more; she loved him witha single-hearted devotion, and it still grieves her to the quick towrite anything which may seem to detract from his memory. Only, aboveall things, let us speak the truth. Much of what I have told you needs,I feel, further explanation, but this I cannot give, for I do notunderstand the circumstances. Mr. Gaskell, your guardian, will, Ibelieve, add to this account a few notes of his own, which may tend toelucidate some points, as he is in possession of certain facts of whichI am still ignorant.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]MR. GASKELL'S NOTEI have read what Miss Maltravers has written, and have but little to addto it. I can give no explanation that will tally with all the facts ormeet all the difficulties involved in her narrative. The most obvioussolution of some points would be, of course, to suppose that Sir JohnMaltravers was insane. But to anyone who knew him as intimately as I
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]did, such an hypothesis is untenable; nor, if admitted, would it explainsome of the strangest incidents. Moreover, it was strongly negatived byDr. Frobisher, from whose verdict in such matters there was at the timeno appeal, by Dr. Dobie, and by Dr. Bruton, who had known Sir John fromhis infancy. It is possible that towards the close of his life hesuffered occasionally from hallucination, though I could not positivelyaffirm even so much; but this was only when his health had beencompletely undermined by causes which are very difficult to analyse.When I first knew him at Oxford he was a strong man physically aswell as mentally; open-hearted, and of a merry and genial temperament.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][CHARACTER][METAPHOR]At the same time he was, like most cultured persons--and especiallymusicians,--highly strung and excitable. But at a certain point in hiscareer his very nature seemed to change; he became reserved, secretive,and saturnine. On this moral metamorphosis followed an equally startlingphysical change. His robust health began to fail him, and although therewas no definite malady which doctors could combat, he went graduallyfrom bad to worse until the end came.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONTEXT]The commencement of this extraordinary change coincided, I believe,almost exactly with his discovery of the Stradivarius violin; andwhether this was, after all, a mere coincidence or something more it isnot easy to say. Until a very short time before his death neither MissMaltravers nor I had any idea how that instrument had come into hispossession, or I think something might perhaps have been done to savehim.Though towards the end of his life he spoke freely to his sister of thefinding of the violin, he only told her half the story, for he concealedfrom her entirely that there was anything else in the hidden cupboard atOxford. But as a matter of fact, he had found there also two manuscriptbooks containing an elaborate diary of some years of a man's life. That
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]man was Adrian Temple, and I believe that in the perusal of this diarymust be sought the origin of John Maltravers's ruin. The manuscript wasbeautifully written in a clear but cramped eighteenth century hand,and gave the idea of a man writing with deliberation, and wishing totranscribe his impressions with accuracy for further reference. Thestyle was excellent, and the minute details given were often of highantiquarian interest; but the record throughout was marred by grosslicence. Adrian Temple's life had undoubtedly so definite an influenceon Sir John's that a brief outline of it, as gathered from his diaries,is necessary for the understanding of what followed.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][SURPRISE][PROBLEM]Temple went up to Oxford in 1737. He was seventeen years old, withoutparents, brothers, or sisters; and he possessed the Royston estatesin Derbyshire, which were then, as now, a most valuable property.With the year 1738 his diaries begin, and though then little more thana boy, he had tasted every illicit pleasure that Oxford had to offer.His temptations were no doubt great; for besides being wealthy he washandsome, and had probably never known any proper control, as both hisparents had died when he was still very young. But in spite of other
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]failings, he was a brilliant scholar, and on taking his degree, wasmade at once a fellow of St. John's. He took up his abode in thatCollege in a fine set of rooms looking on to the gardens, and from thisperiod seems to have used Royston but little, living always either atOxford or on the Continent. He formed at this time the acquaintance ofone Jocelyn, whom he engaged as companion and amanuensis. Jocelyn was a
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]man of talent, but of irregular life, and was no doubt an accomplice inmany of Temple's excesses. In 1743 they both undertook the so-called[DIALOGUE]"grand tour," and though it was not his first visit, it was thenprobably that Temple first felt the fascination of pagan Italy,--afascination which increased with every year of his after-life.On his return from foreign travel he found himself among the stirringevents of 1745. He was an ardent supporter of the Pretender, and made noattempt to conceal his views. Jacobite tendencies were indeed generally
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][CHARACTER]prevalent in the College at the time, and had this been the sum of hisoffending, it is probable that little notice would have been taken bythe College authorities. But his notoriously wild life told against theyoung man, and certain dark suspicions were not easily passed over.After the _fiasco_ of the Rebellion Dr. Holmes, then President of theCollege, seems to have made a scapegoat of Temple. He was deprived ofhis fellowship, and though not formally expelled, such pressure was putupon him as resulted in his leaving St. John's and removing to Magdalen
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Hall. There his great wealth evidently secured him consideration, and hewas given the best rooms in the Hall, that very set looking on to NewCollege Lane which Sir John Maltravers afterwards occupied.In the first half of the eighteenth century the romance of the middleages, though dying, was not dead, and the occult sciences still foundfollowers among the Oxford towers. From his early years Temple's mindseems to have been set strongly towards mysticism of all kinds, and heand Jocelyn were versed in the jargon of the alchemist and astrologer,and practised according to the ancient rules. It was his reputation as
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][CHARACTER]a necromancer, and the stories current of illicit rites performed inthe garden-rooms at St. John's, that contributed largely to his beingdismissed from that College. He had also become acquainted with FrancisDashwood, the notorious Lord le Despencer, and many a winter's nightsaw him riding through the misty Thames meadows to the door of the shamFranciscan abbey. In his diaries were more notices than one of the[DIALOGUE]"Franciscans" and the nameless orgies of Medmenham.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]He was devoted to music. It was a rare enough accomplishment then, and ararer thing still to find a wealthy landowner performing on the violin.Yet so he did, though he kept his passion very much to himself, asfiddling was thought lightly of in those days. His musical skillwas altogether exceptional, and he was the first possessor of theStradivarius violin which afterwards fell so unfortunately into SirJohn's hands. This violin Temple bought in the autumn of 1738, on the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DEATH][FLASHBACK][CONTEXT]occasion of a first visit to Italy. In that year died the nonagenarianAntonius Stradivarius, the greatest violin-maker the world has everseen. After Stradivarius's death the stock of fiddles in his shop wassold by auction. Temple happened to be travelling in Cremona at the timewith a tutor, and at the auction he bought that very instrument which weafterwards had cause to know so well. A note in his diary gave its cost
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]at four louis, and said that a curious history attached to it. Thoughit was of his golden period, and probably the finest instrument he evermade, Stradivarius would never sell it, and it had hung for more thanthirty years in his shop. It was said that from some whim as he laydying he had given orders that it should be burnt; but if that were so,the instructions were neglected, and after his death it came under thehammer. Adrian Temple from the first recognised the great value of theinstrument. His notes show that he only used it on certain special
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][CONFLICT]occasions, and it was no doubt for its better protection that he devisedthe hidden cupboard where Sir John eventually found it.The later years of Temple's life were spent for the most part in Italy.On the Scoglio di Venere, near Naples, he built the Villa de Angelis,and there henceforth passed all except the hottest months of the year.Shortly after the completion of the villa Jocelyn left him suddenly, andbecame a Carthusian monk. A caustic note in his diary hinted that even
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]this foul parasite was shocked into the austerest form of religion bysomething he had seen going forward. At Naples Temple's dark life becamestill darker. He dallied, it is true, with Neo-Platonism, and boaststhat he, like Plotinus, had twice passed the circle of the _nous_ andenjoyed the fruition of the deity; but the ideals of even that easydoctrine grew in his evil life still more miserably debased. More thanonce in the manuscript he made mention by name of the _Gagliarda_of Graziani as having been played at pagan mysteries which theseenthusiasts revived at Naples, and the air had evidently impresseditself deeply on his memory. The last entry in his diary is made on
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][FLASHBACK][PROBLEM][ACTION]the 16th of December, 1752. He was then in Oxford for a few days, butshortly afterwards returned to Naples. The accident of his having justcompleted a second volume, induced him, no doubt, to leave it behind himin the secret cupboard. It is probable that he commenced a third, but ifso it was never found.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]In reading the manuscript I was struck with the author's clear and easystyle, and found the interest of the narrative increase rather thandiminish. At the same time its study was inexpressibly painful to me.Nothing could have supported me in my determination to thoroughlymaster it but the conviction that if I was to be of any real assistanceto my poor friend Maltravers, I must know as far as possible everycircumstance connected with his malady. As it was, I felt myselfbreathing an atmosphere of moral contagion during the perusal of themanuscript, and certain passages have since returned at times to hauntme in spite of all efforts to dislodge them from my memory. When I came
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]to Worth at Miss Maltravers's urgent invitation, I found my friend SirJohn terribly altered. It was not only that he was ill and physicallyweak, but he had entirely lost the manner of youth, which, thoughindefinable, is yet so appreciable, and draws so sharp a distinctionbetween the first period of life and middle age. But the most strikingfeature of his illness was the extraordinary pallor of his complexion,which made his face resemble a subtle counterfeit of white wax ratherthan that of a living man. He welcomed me undemonstratively, but withevident sincerity; and there was an entire absence of the constraintwhich often accompanies the meeting again of friends whose cordialrelations have suffered interruption. From the time of my arrival at
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][CONFLICT][TRANSITION]Worth until his death we were constantly together; indeed I was muchstruck by the almost childish dislike which he showed to be left aloneeven for a few moments. As night approached this feeling becameintensified. Parnham slept always in his master's room; but if anythingcalled the servant away even for a minute, he would send for Carotenutoor myself to be with him until his return. His nerves were weak; hestarted violently at any unexpected noise, and above all, he dreadedbeing in the dark. When night fell he had additional lamps brought into
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DANGER][CHARACTER]his room, and even when he composed himself to sleep, insisted on astrong light being kept by his bedside.I had often read in books of people wearing a [DIALOGUE]"hunted" expression, andhad laughed at the phrase as conventional and unmeaning. But when Icame to Worth I knew its truth; for if any face ever wore a hunted--Ihad almost written a haunted--look, it was the white face of Sir JohnMaltravers. His air seemed that of a man who was constantly expectingthe arrival of some evil tidings, and at times reminded me painfully ofthe guilty expectation of a felon who knows that a warrant is issued forhis arrest.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]During my visit he spoke to me frequently about his past life, andinstead of showing any reluctance to discuss the subject, seemed glad ofthe opportunity of disburdening his mind. I gathered from him that thereading of Adrian Temple's memoirs had made a deep impression on hismind, which was no doubt intensified by the vision which he thought hesaw in his rooms at Oxford, and by the discovery of the portrait atRoyston. Of those singular phenomena I have no explanation to offer.The romantic element in his disposition rendered him peculiarlysusceptible to the fascination of that mysticism which breathed throughTemple's narrative. He told me that almost from the first time he read
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]it he was filled with a longing to visit the places and to revive thestrange life of which it spoke. This inclination he kept at first incheck, but by degrees it gathered strength enough to master him.There is no doubt in my mind that the music of the _Gagliarda_ ofGraziani helped materially in this process of mental degradation. It iscurious that Michael Prætorius in the [DIALOGUE]"Syntagma musicum" should speak ofthe Galliard generally as an [DIALOGUE]"invention of the devil, full of shamefuland licentious gestures and immodest movements," and the singular melodyof the _Gagliarda_ in the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita" suite certainly exercised fromthe first a strange influence over me. I shall not do more than touch
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]on the question here, because I see Miss Maltravers has spoken of itat length, and will only say, that though since the day of Sir John'sdeath I have never heard a note of it, the air is still fresh in mymind, and has at times presented itself to me unexpectedly, and alwayswith an unwholesome effect. This I have found happen generally in timesof physical depression, and the same air no doubt exerted a similarinfluence on Sir John, which his impressionable nature rendered from thefirst more deleterious to him.I say this advisedly, because I am sure that if some music is good forman and elevates him, other melodies are equally bad and enervating. Anexperience far wider than any we yet possess is necessary to enable usto say how far this influence is capable of extension. How far, that
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][FLASHBACK][PERSPECTIVE][HAUNTED HOUSE]is, the mind may be directed on the one hand to ascetic abnegation bythe systematic use of certain music, or on the other to illicit anddangerous pleasures by melodies of an opposite tendency. But this muchis, I think, certain, that after a comparatively advanced standard ofculture has once been attained, music is the readiest if not the onlykey which admits to the yet narrower circle of the highest imaginativethought.On the occasion for travel afforded him by his honeymoon, an impulsewhich he could not at the time explain, but which after-events haveconvinced me was the haunting suggestion of the _Gagliarda_, drove himto visit the scenes mentioned so often in Temple's diary. He had alwaysbeen an excellent scholar, and a classic of more than ordinary ability.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE][RELIEF][SURPRISE]Rome and Southern Italy filled him with a strange delight. His educationenabled him to appreciate to the full what he saw; he peopled the stagewith the figures of the original actors, and tried to assimilate histhought to theirs. He began reading classical literature widely, nolonger from the scholarly but the literary standpoint. In Rome hespent much time in the librarians' shops, and there met with copiesof the numerous authors of the later empire and of those Alexandrinephilosophers which are rarely seen in England. In these he found a new
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DANGER][CHARACTER]delight and fresh food for his mysticism.Such study, if carried to any extent, is probably dangerous to theEnglish character, and certainly was to a man of Maltravers's romanticsympathies. This reading produced in time so real an effect upon hismind that if he did not definitely abandon Christianity, as I fear hedid, he at least adulterated it with other doctrines till it became tohim Neo-Platonism. That most seductive of philosophies, which hasenthralled so many minds from Proclus and Julian to Augustine and theRenaissancists, found an easy convert in John Maltravers. Its passionate
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]longing for the vague and undefined good, its tolerance of æstheticimpressions, the pleasant superstitions of its dynamic pantheism, alltouched responsive chords in his nature. His mind, he told me, becamefilled with a measureless yearning for the old culture of paganphilosophy, and as the past became clearer and more real, so the presentgrew dimmer, and his thoughts were gradually weaned entirely from allthe natural objects of affection and interest which should otherwisehave occupied them. To what a terrible extent this process went on, MissMaltravers's narrative shows. Soon after reaching Naples he visited theVilla de Angelis, which Temple had built on the ruins of a sea-house ofPomponius. The later building had in its turn become dismantled and
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]ruinous, and Sir John found no difficulty in buying the site outright.He afterwards rebuilt it on an elaborate scale, endeavouring toreproduce in its equipment the luxury of the later empire. I hadoccasion to visit the house more than once in my capacity of executor,and found it full of priceless works of art, which, though neither sodifficult to procure at that time nor so costly as they would be now,were yet sufficiently valuable to have necessitated an unjustifiableoutlay.The situation of the building fostered his infatuation for the past. It
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PERSPECTIVE][FLASHBACK][CONTEXT][PROBLEM][EMOTION][HORROR]lay between the Bay of Naples and the Bay of Baia, and from its windowscommanded the same exquisite view which had charmed Cicero and Lucullus,Severus and the Antonines. Hard by stood Baia, the princely seasideresort of the empire. That most luxurious and wanton of all cities ofantiquity survived the cataclysms of ages, and only lost its civiccontinuity and became the ruined village of to-day in the sack of thefifteenth century. But a continuity of wickedness is not so easilybroken, and those who know the spot best say that it is still instinctwith memories of a shameful past.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][VAMPIRE]For miles along that haunted coast the foot cannot be put down except onthe ruins of some splendid villa, and over all there broods a spirit ofcorruption and debasement actually sensible and oppressive. Of the dawnsand sunsets, of the noonday sun tempered by the sea-breeze and the shadeof scented groves, those who have been there know the charm, and tothose who have not no words can describe it. But there are maleficvapours rising from the corpse of a past not altogether buried, and mostcultivated Englishmen who tarry there long feel their influence as didJohn Maltravers. Like so many _decepti deceptores_ of the Neo-Platonicschool, he did not practise the abnegation enjoined by the very cult heprofessed to follow. Though his nature was far too refined, I believe,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][FLASHBACK][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][METAPHOR][CONTEXT]ever to sink into the sensualism revealed in Temple's diaries, yet itwas through the gratification of corporeal tastes that he endeavouredto achieve the divine _extasis_; and there were constantly lavish andsumptuous entertainments at the villa, at which strange guests werepresent.In such a nightmare of a life it was not to be expected that any mindwould find repose, and Maltravers certainly found none. All those careswhich usually occupy men's minds, all thoughts of wife, child, and homewere, it is true, abandoned; but a wild unrest had hold of him, andnever suffered him to be at ease. Though he never told me as much, yetI believe he was under the impression that the form which he had seenat Oxford and Royston had reappeared to him on more than one subsequentoccasion. It must have been, I fancy, with a vague hope of [DIALOGUE]"laying" this
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][DEATH]spectre that he now set himself with eagerness to discover where orhow Temple had died. He remembered that Royston tradition said he hadsuccumbed at Naples in the plague of 1752, but an idea seized him thatthis was not the case; indeed I half suspect his fancy unconsciouslypictured that evil man as still alive. The methods by which heeventually discovered the skeleton, or learnt the episodes whichpreceded Temple's death, I do not know. He promised to tell me someday at length, but a sudden death prevented his ever doing so. The
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]facts as he narrated them, and as I have little doubt they actuallyoccurred, were these: Adrian Temple, after Jocelyn's departure, hadmade a confidant of one Palamede Domacavalli, a scion of a splendidParthenopean family of that name. Palamede had a palace in the heart ofNaples, and was Temple's equal in age and also in his great wealth. Thetwo men became boon companions, associated in all kinds of wickednessand excess. At length Palamede married a beautiful girl named OlimpiaAldobrandini, who was also of the noblest lineage; but the intimacybetween him and Temple was not interrupted. About a year subsequent to
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][ACTION][EMOTION]this marriage dancing was going on after a splendid banquet in the greathall of the Palazzo Domacavalli. Adrian, who was a favoured guest,called to the musicians in the gallery to play the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita" suite,and danced it with Olimpia, the wife of his host. The _Gagliarda_ wasreached but never finished, for near the end of the second movementPalamede from behind drove a stiletto into his friend's heart. He hadfound out that day that Adrian had not spared even Olimpia's honour.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE]I have endeavoured to condense into a connected story the facts learntpiecemeal from Sir John in conversation. To a certain extent theysupplied, if not an explanation, at least an account of the changethat had come over my friend. But only to a certain extent; there theexplanation broke down and I was left baffled. I could imagine that alife of unwholesome surroundings and disordered studies might in timeproduce such a loss of mental tone as would lead in turn to moral_acolasia_, sensual excess, and physical ruin. But in Sir John's case
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR][SURPRISE][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]the cause was not adequate; he had, so far as I know, never wholly giventhe reins to sensuality, and the change was too abrupt and the breakdownof body and mind too complete to be accounted for by such events asthose of which he had spoken.I had, too, an uneasy feeling, which grew upon me the more I saw of him,that while he spoke freely enough on certain topics, and obviously meantto give a complete history of his past life, there was in realitysomething in the background which he always kept from my view. He was,it seemed, like a young man asked by an indulgent father to disclosehis debts in order that they may be discharged, who, although he knowshis parent's leniency, and that any debt not now disclosed will beafterwards but a weight upon his own neck, yet hesitates for very shameto tell the full amount, and keeps some items back. So poor Sir Johnkept something back from me his friend, whose only aim was to afford himconsolation and relief, and whose compassion would have made me listenwithout rebuke to the narration of the blackest crimes. I cannot say how
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]much this conviction grieved me. I would most willingly have given myall, my very life, to save my friend and Miss Maltravers's brother; butmy efforts were paralysed by the feeling that I did not know what I hadto combat, that some evil influence was at work on him which continuallyevaded my grasp. Once or twice it seemed as though he were within anace of telling me all; once or twice, I believe, he had definitely madeup his mind to do so; but then the mood changed, or more probably hiscourage failed him.It was on one of these occasions that he asked me, somewhat suddenly,whether I thought that a man could by any conscious act committed in theflesh take away from himself all possibility of repentance and ultimatesalvation. Though, I trust, a sincere Christian, I am nothing of a
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][TRANSITION]theologian, and the question touching on a topic which had not occurredto my mind since childhood, and which seemed to savour rather ofmedieval romance than of practical religion, took me for a moment aback.I hesitated for an instant, and then replied that the means of salvationoffered man were undoubtedly so sufficient as to remove from one trulypenitent the guilt of any crime however dark. My hesitation had been butmomentary; but Sir John seemed to have noticed it, and sealed his lipsto any confession, if he had indeed intended to make any, by changingthe subject abruptly. This question naturally gave me food for seriousreflection and anxiety. It was the first occasion on which he appeared
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]to me to be undoubtedly suffering from definite hallucination, and I wasaware that any illusions connected with religion are generally mostdifficult to remove. At the same time, anything of this sort was themore remarkable in Sir John's case, as he had, so far as I knew, for aconsiderable time entirely abandoned the Christian belief.Unable to elicit any further information from him, and being thus thrownentirely upon my own resources, I determined that I would read throughagain the whole of Temple's diaries. The task was a very distastefulone, as I have already explained, but I hoped that a second readingmight perhaps throw some light on the dark misgiving that was troublingSir John. I read the manuscript again with the closest attention.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][PROBLEM][SURPRISE]Nothing, however, of any importance seemed to have escaped me on theformer occasions, and I had reached nearly the end of the second volumewhen a comparatively slight matter arrested my attention. I have saidthat the pages were all carefully numbered, and the events of each dayrecorded separately; even where Temple had found nothing of moment tonotice on a given day, he had still inserted the date with the word_nil_ written against it. But as I sat one evening in the library atWorth after Sir John had gone to bed, and was finally glancing throughthe days of the months in Temple's diary to make sure that all werecomplete, I found one day was missing. It was towards the end of thesecond volume, and the day was the 23d of October in the year 1752. A
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]glance at the numbering of the pages revealed the fact that three leaveshad been entirely removed, and that the pages numbered 349 to 354 werenot to be found. Again I ran through the diaries to see whether therewere any leaves removed in other places, but found no other single pagemissing. All was complete except at this one place, the manuscriptbeautifully written, with scarcely an error or erasure throughout. Acloser examination showed that these leaves had been cut out close tothe back, and the cut edges of the paper appeared too fresh to admit ofthis being done a century ago. A very short reflection convinced me, in
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]fact, that the excision was not likely to have been Temple's, and thatit must have been made by Sir John.My first intention was to ask him at once what the lost pages hadcontained, and why they had been cut out. The matter might be a meretriviality which he could explain in a moment. But on softly opening hisbedroom door I found him sleeping, and Parnham (whom the strong lightalways burnt in the room rendered more wakeful) informed me that hismaster had been in a deep sleep for more than an hour. I knew how
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][FLASHBACK]sorely his wasted energies needed such repose, and stepped back to thelibrary without awaking him. A few minutes before, I had been feelingsleepy at the conclusion of my task, but now all wish for sleep wassuddenly banished and a painful wakefulness took its place. I was undera species of mental excitement which reminded me of my feelings someyears before at Oxford on the first occasion of our ever playing the_Gagliarda_ together, and an idea struck me with the force of intuitionthat in these three lost leaves lay the secret of my friend's ruin.I turned to the context to see whether there was anything in the entriespreceding or following the lacuna that would afford a clue to themissing passage. The record of the few days immediately preceding the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]23d of October was short and contained nothing of any moment whatever.Adrian and Jocelyn were alone together at the Villa de Angelis. Theentry on the 22d was very unimportant and apparently quite complete,ending at the bottom of page 348. Of the 23d there was, as I have said,no record at all, and the entry for the 24th began at the top of page355. This last memorandum was also brief, and written when the author
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][PROBLEM][CONFLICT][CHARACTERIZATION][PERSPECTIVE][METAPHOR]was annoyed by Jocelyn leaving him.The defection of his companion had been apparently entirely unexpected.There was at least no previous hint of any such intention. Temple wrotethat Jocelyn had left the Villa de Angelis that day and taken up hisabode with the Carthusians of San Martino. No reason for such an
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]extraordinary change was given; but there was a hint that Jocelyn hadprofessed himself shocked at something that had happened. The entryconcluded with a few bitter remarks: _[DIALOGUE]"So farewell to my holy anchoret;and if I cannot speed him with a leprosie as one Elisha did his servant,yet at least he went out from my presence with a face as white assnow."_I had read this sentence more than once before without its attractingother than a passing attention. The curious expression, that Jocelyn hadgone out from his presence with a face as white as snow, had hithertoseemed to me to mean nothing more than that the two men had parted inviolent anger, and that Temple had abused or bullied his companion. Butas I sat alone that night in the library the words seemed to assume anentirely new force, and a strange suspicion began to creep over me.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]I have said that one of the most remarkable features of Sir John'sillness was his deadly pallor. Though I had now spent some time atWorth, and had been daily struck by this lack of colour, I had neverbefore remembered in this connection that a strange paleness had alsobeen an attribute of Adrian Temple, and was indeed very clearly markedin the picture painted of him by Battoni. In Sir John's account,moreover, of the vision which he thought he had seen in his rooms atOxford, he had always spoken of the white and waxen face of his spectralvisitant. The family tradition of Royston said that Temple had lost hiscolour in some deadly magical experiment, and a conviction now flashedupon me that Jocelyn's face [DIALOGUE]"as white as snow" could refer only to thissame unnatural pallor, and that he too had been smitten with it as withthe mark of the beast.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]In a drawer of my despatch-box, I kept by me all the letters which thelate Lady Maltravers had written home during her ill-fated honeymoon.Miss Maltravers had placed them in my hands in order that I might beacquainted with every fact that could at all elucidate the progress ofSir John's malady. I remembered that in one of these letters mention wasmade of a sharp attack of fever in Naples, and of her noticing in himfor the first time this singular pallor. I found the letter againwithout difficulty and read it with a new light. Every line breathed of
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][DANGER][EMOTION][CONFLICT][TRANSITION][PROBLEM]surprise and alarm. Lady Maltravers feared that her husband was veryseriously ill. On the Wednesday, two days before she wrote, he hadsuffered all day from a strange restlessness, which had increased afterthey had retired in the evening. He could not sleep and had dressedagain, saying he would walk a little in the night air to composehimself. He had not returned till near six in the morning, and then
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]seemed so exhausted that he had since been confined to his bed. He wasterribly pale, and the doctors feared he had been attacked by somestrange fever.The date of the letter was the 25th of October, fixing the night of the23d as the time of Sir John's first attack. The coincidence of the datewith that of the day missing in Temple's diary was significant, but itwas not needed now to convince me that Sir John's ruin was due tosomething that occurred on that fatal night at Naples.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][CONTEXT][DEATH][DANGER][FLASHBACK][HORROR]The question that Dr. Frobisher had asked Miss Maltravers when he wasfirst called to see her brother in London returned to my memory with anoverwhelming force. [DIALOGUE]"Had Sir John been subjected to any mental shock;had he received any severe fright?" I knew now that the question shouldhave been answered in the affirmative, for I felt as certain as ifSir John had told me himself that he _had_ received a violent shock,probably some terrible fright, on the night of the 23d of October. Whatthe nature of that shock could have been my imagination was powerless toconceive, only I knew that whatever Sir John had done or seen, AdrianTemple and Jocelyn had done or seen also a century before and at thesame place. That horror which had blanched the face of all three menfor life had fallen perhaps with a less overwhelming force on Temple'sseasoned wickedness, but had driven the worthless Jocelyn to thecloister, and was driving Sir John to the grave.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]These thoughts as they passed through my mind filled me with a vaguealarm. The lateness of the hour, the stillness and the subdued light,made the library in which I sat seem so vast and lonely that I began tofeel the same dread of being alone that I had observed so often in myfriend. Though only a door separated me from his bedroom, and I couldhear his deep and regular breathing, I felt as though I must go inand waken him or Parnham to keep me company and save me from my ownreflections. By a strong effort I restrained myself, and sat down tothink the matter over and endeavour to frame some hypothesis that mightexplain the mystery. But it was all to no purpose. I merely wearied
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]myself without being able to arrive at even a plausible conjecture,except that it seemed as though the strange coincidence of date mightpoint to some ghastly charm or incantation which could only be carriedout on one certain night of the year.It must have been near morning when, quite exhausted, I fell into anuneasy slumber in the arm-chair where I sat. My sleep, however brief,was peopled with a succession of fantastic visions, in which Icontinually saw Sir John, not ill and wasted as now, but vigorous andhandsome as I had known him at Oxford, standing beside a glowing brazierand reciting words I could not understand, while another man with asneering white face sat in a corner playing the air of the _Gagliarda_on a violin. Parnham woke me in my chair at seven o'clock; his master,he said, was still sleeping easily.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][SUSPENSE]I had made up my mind that as soon as he awoke I would inquire of SirJohn as to the pages missing from the diary; but though my expectationand excitement were at a high pitch, I was forced to restrain mycuriosity, for Sir John's slumber continued late into the day. Dr.Bruton called in the morning, and said that this sleep was what thepatient's condition most required, and was a distinctly favourablesymptom; he was on no account to be disturbed. Sir John did not leavehis bed, but continued dozing all day till the evening. When at last heshook off his drowsiness, the hour was already so late that, in spite ofmy anxiety, I hesitated to talk with him about the diaries, lest Ishould unduly excite him before the night.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][TRANSITION]As the evening advanced he became very uneasy, and rose more than oncefrom his bed. This restlessness, following on the repose of the day,ought perhaps to have made me anxious, for I have since observed thatwhen death is very near an apprehensive unrest often sets in both withmen and animals. It seems as if they dreaded to resign themselves tosleep, lest as they slumber the last enemy should seize them unawares.They try to fling off the bedclothes, they sometimes must leave theirbeds and walk. So it was with poor John Maltravers on his last Christmas
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][EMOTION][CONFLICT]Eve. I had sat with him grieving for his disquiet until he seemed togrow more tranquil, and at length fell asleep. I was sleeping that nightin his room instead of Parnham, and tired with sitting up through theprevious night, I flung myself, dressed as I was, upon the bed. I hadscarcely dozed off, I think, before the sound of his violin awoke me.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][FLASHBACK][TRANSITION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][EMOTION][HORROR]I found he had risen from his bed, had taken his favourite instrument,and was playing in his sleep. The air was the _Gagliarda_ of the[DIALOGUE]"Areopagita" suite, which I had not heard since we had played it lasttogether at Oxford, and it brought back with it a crowd of far-offmemories and infinite regrets. I cursed the sleepiness which hadovercome me at my watchman's post, and allowed Sir John to play oncemore that melody which had always been fraught with such evil for him;and I was about to wake him gently when he was startled from sleep by astrange accident. As I walked towards him the violin seemed entirely tocollapse in his hands, and, as a matter of fact, the belly then gave wayand broke under the strain of the strings. As the strings slackened, the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][GHOST]last note became an unearthly discord. If I were superstitious I shouldsay that some evil spirit then went out of the violin, and broke in hisparting throes the wooden tabernacle which had so long sheltered him. Itwas the last time the instrument was ever used, and that hideous chordwas the last that Maltravers ever played.I had feared that the shock of waking thus suddenly from sleep wouldhave a very prejudicial effect upon the sleep-walker, but this seemednot to be the case. I persuaded him to go back at once to bed, and in a
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION][RELIEF]few minutes he fell asleep again. In the morning he seemed for the firsttime distinctly better; there was indeed something of his old self inhis manner. It seemed as though the breaking of the violin had been anactual relief to him; and I believe that on that Christmas morning hisbetter instincts woke, and that his old religious training and theassociations of his boyhood then made their last appeal. I was pleasedat such a change, however temporary it might prove. He wished to go to
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]church, and I determined that again I would subdue my curiosity anddefer the questions I was burning to put till after our return fromthe morning service. Miss Maltravers had gone indoors to make somepreparation, Sir John was in his wheel-chair on the terrace, and I wassitting by him in the sun. For a few moments he appeared immersed insilent thought, and then bent over towards me till his head was closeto mine, and said, [DIALOGUE]"Dear William, there is something I must tell you.I feel I cannot even go to church till I have told you all." His mannershocked me beyond expression. I knew that he was going to tell me thesecret of the lost pages, but instead of wishing any longer to have mycuriosity satisfied, I felt a horrible dread of what he might say next.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT]He took my hand in his and held it tightly, as a man who was about toundergo severe physical pain and sought the consolation of a friend'ssupport. Then he went on--[DIALOGUE]"You will be shocked at what I am going totell you; but listen, and do not give me up: You must stand by me andcomfort me and help me to turn again." He paused for a moment andcontinued--[DIALOGUE]"It was one night in October, when Constance and I were atNaples. I took that violin and went by myself to the ruined villa onthe Scoglio di Venere." He had been speaking with difficulty. His handclutched mine convulsively, but still I felt it trembling, and I couldsee the moisture standing thick on his forehead. At this point theeffort seemed too much for him and he broke off. "I cannot go on, I
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SUSPENSE][DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]cannot tell you, but you can read it for yourself. In that diary whichI gave you there are some pages missing.[DIALOGUE]" The suspense was becomingintolerable to me, and I broke in, "Yes, yes, I know; you cut them out.Tell me where they are,[DIALOGUE]" He went on--"Yes, I cut them out lest theyshould possibly fall into anyone's hands unaware. But before you readthem you must swear, as you hope for salvation, that you will never tryto do what is written in them. Swear this to me now, or I never can
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][SURPRISE][DANGER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][SETTING]let you see them.[DIALOGUE]" My eagerness was too great to stop now to discusstrifles, and to humour him I swore as desired. He had been speaking witha continual increasing effort; he cast a hurried and fearful glanceround as though he expected to see someone listening, and it was almostin a whisper that he went on, "You will find them in--" His agitationhad become most painful to watch, and as he spoke the last words aconvulsion passed over his face, and speech failing him, he sank back onhis pillow. A strange fear took hold of me. For a moment I thought there
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT]were others on the terrace beside myself, and turned round expecting tosee Miss Maltravers returned; but we were still alone. I even fanciedthat just as Sir John spoke his last words I felt something brushswiftly by me. He put up his hands, beating the air with a most painfulgesture, as though he were trying to keep off an antagonist who hadgripped him by the throat, and made a final struggle to speak. But thespasm was too strong for him; a dreadful stillness followed, and he wasgone.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]There is little more to add; for Sir John's guilty secret, perished withhim. Though I was sure from his manner that the missing leaves wereconcealed somewhere at Worth, and though as executor I caused the mostdiligent search to be made, no trace of them was afterwards found; nordid any circumstance ever transpire to fling further light upon thematter. I must confess that I should have felt the discovery of thesepages as a relief; for though I dreaded what I might have had to read,yet I was more anxious lest, being found at a later period and fallinginto other hands, they should cause a recrudescence of that plague whichhad blighted Sir John's life.Of the nature of the events which took place on that night at NaplesI can form no conjecture. But as certain physical sights have ere now
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DANGER]proved so revolting as to unhinge the intellect, so I can imagine thatthe mind may in a state of extreme tension conjure up to itself someform of moral evil so hideous as metaphysically to sear it: and this,I believe, happened in the case both of Adrian Temple and of Sir JohnMaltravers.It is difficult to imagine the accessories used to produce the mentalexcitation in which alone such a presentment of evil could becomeimaginable. Fancy and legend, which have combined to represent aspossible appearances of the supernatural, agree also in considering themas more likely to occur at certain times and places than at others; andit is possible that the missing pages of the diary contained an accountof the time, place, and other conditions chosen by Temple for somedeadly experiment. Sir John most probably re-enacted the scene underprecisely similar conditions, and the effect on his overwroughtimagination was so vivid as to upset the balance of his mind. The time
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][DANGER][METAPHOR]chosen was no doubt the night of the 23d of October, and I cannot helpthinking that the place was one of those evil-looking and ruinoussea-rooms which had so terrifying an effect on Miss Maltravers. Templemay have used on that night one of the medieval incantations, orpossibly the more ancient invocation of the Isiac rite with which aman of his knowledge and proclivities would certainly be familiar. Theaccessories of either are sufficiently hideous to weaken the mind byterror, and so prepare it for a belief in some frightful apparition. Butwhatever was done, I feel sure that the music of the _Gagliarda_ formedpart of the ceremonial.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Medieval philosophers and theologians held that evil is in its essenceso horrible that the human mind, if it could realise it, must perish atits contemplation. Such realisation was by mercy ordinarily withheld,but its possibility was hinted in the legend of the _Visio malefica_.The _Visio Beatifica_ was, as is well known, that vision of the Deityor realisation of the perfect Good which was to form the happiness ofheaven, and the reward of the sanctified in the next world. Traditionsays that this vision was accorded also to some specially elect spiritseven in this life, as to Enoch, Elijah, Stephen, and Jerome. But there
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][DANGER]was a converse to the Beatific Vision in the _Visio malefica_, orpresentation of absolute Evil, which was to be the chief torture of thedamned, and which, like the Beatific Vision, had been made visible inlife to certain desperate men. It visited Esau, as was said, when hefound no place for repentance, and Judas, whom it drove to suicide.Cain saw it when he murdered his brother, and legend relates that in hiscase, and in that of others, it left a physical brand to be borne bythe body to the grave. It was supposed that the Malefic Vision, besidesbeing thus spontaneously presented to typically abandoned men, hadactually been purposely called up by some few great adepts, and used bythem to blast their enemies. But to do so was considered equivalent to a
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR][SURPRISE][DANGER][CONFLICT]conscious surrender to the powers of evil, as the vision once seen tookaway all hope of final salvation.Adrian Temple would undoubtedly be cognisant of this legend, and thelost experiment may have been an attempt to call up the Malefic Vision.It is but a vague conjecture at the best, for the tree of the knowledgeof Evil bears many sorts of poisonous fruit, and no one can give fullaccount of the extravagances of a wayward fancy.Conjointly with Miss Sophia, Sir John appointed me his executor andguardian of his only son. Two months later we had lit a great fire
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]in the library at Worth. In it, after the servants were gone to bed,we burnt the book containing the [DIALOGUE]"Areopagita" of Graziani, and theStradivarius fiddle. The diaries of Temple I had already destroyed, andwish that I could as easily blot out their foul and debasing memoriesfrom my mind. I shall probably be blamed by those who would exaltart at the expense of everything else, for burning a unique violin.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][EMOTION][CONFLICT][PROBLEM][DANGER]This reproach I am content to bear. Though I am not unreasonablysuperstitious, and have no sympathy for that potential pantheism towhich Sir John Maltravers surrendered his intellect, yet I felt so greatan aversion to this violin that I would neither suffer it to remain atWorth, nor pass into other hands. Miss Sophia was entirely at one withme on this point. It was the same feeling which restrains any exceptfools or braggarts from wishing to sleep in [DIALOGUE]"haunted" rooms, or to livein houses polluted with the memory of a revolting crime. No sane mind
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR][PERSPECTIVE][TRANSITION][SURPRISE][CONTEXT][CONFLICT]believes in foolish apparitions, but fancy may at times bewitch the bestof us. So the Stradivarius was burnt. It was, after all, perhaps not soserious a matter, for, as I have said, the bass-bar had given way. Therehad always been a question whether it was strong enough to resist thestrain of modern stringing. Experience showed at last that it was not.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE][METAPHOR][MURDER]With the failure of the bass-bar the belly collapsed, and the wood brokeacross the grain in so extraordinary a manner as to put the fiddlebeyond repair, except as a curiosity. Its loss, therefore, is not to beso much regretted. Sir Edward has been brought up to think more of acricket-bat than of a violin-bow; but if he wishes at any time to buy aStradivarius, the fortunes of Worth and Royston, nursed through two longminorities, will certainly justify his doing so.Miss Sophia and I stood by and watched the holocaust. My heart misgave
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SURPRISE]me for a moment when I saw the mellow red varnish blistering off theback, but I put my regret resolutely aside. As the bright flames jumpedup and lapped it round, they flung a red glow on the scroll. It waswonderfully wrought, and differed, as I think Miss Maltravers hasalready said, from any known example of Stradivarius. As we watched it,the scroll took form, and we saw what we had never seen before, that itwas cut so that the deep lines in a certain light showed as the profileof a man. It was a wizened little paganish face, with sharp-cut features
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][FLASHBACK]and a bald head. As I looked at it I knew at once (and a cameo has sinceconfirmed the fact) that it was a head of Porphyry. Thus the secondlabel found in the violin was explained and Sir John's view confirmed,that Stradivarius had made the instrument for some Neo-Platonistenthusiast who had dedicated it to his master Porphyrius.       *       *       *       *       *A year after Sir John's death I went with Miss Maltravers to Worthchurch to see a plain slab of slate which we had placed over herbrother's grave. We stood in bright sunlight in the Maltravers chapel,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][RELIEF][SURPRISE][PERSPECTIVE][CONFLICT][EMOTION]with the monuments of that splendid family about us. Among them were thealtar-tomb of Sir Esmoun, and the effigies of more than one Crusader.As I looked on their knightly forms, with their heads resting on theirtilting helms, their faces set firm, and their hands joined in prayer,I could not help envying them that full and unwavering faith for whichthey had fought and died. It seemed to stand out in such sharp contrastwith our latter-day sciolism and half-believed creeds, and to be flunginto higher relief by the dark shadow of John Maltravers's ruined life.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]At our feet was the great brass of one Sir Roger de Maltravers. Ipointed out the end of the inscription to my companion--[DIALOGUE]"CVIVS ANIMÆ,ATQVE ANIMABVS OMNIVM FIDELIVM DEFVNCTORVM, ATQVE NOSTRIS ANIMABVS QVVMEX HAC LVCE TRANSIVERIMVS, PROPITIETVR DEVS." Though no Catholic, Icould not refuse to add a sincere Amen. Miss Sophia, who is not ignorantof Latin, read the inscription after me. [DIALOGUE]"Ex hac luce," she said, asthough speaking to herself, "out of this light; alas! alas! for some the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][METAPHOR][CONFLICT]light is darkness."***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LOST STRADIVARIUS********** This file should be named 14107-8.txt or 14107-8.zip *******This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/1/4/1/0/14107
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][TRANSITION]Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editionswill be renamed.Creating the works from public domain print editions means that noone owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States withoutpermission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply tocopying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works toprotect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if youcharge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If youdo not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with therules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purposesuch as creation of derivative works, reports, performances andresearch.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may dopractically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]subject to the trademark license, especially commercialredistribution.*** START: FULL LICENSE ***THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSEPLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORKTo protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the freedistribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase [DIALOGUE]"ProjectGutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full ProjectGutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online athttp://gutenberg.net/license).Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]electronic works1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree toand accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by allthe terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroyall copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by theterms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person orentity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.1.B.  [DIALOGUE]"Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people whoagree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a fewthings that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic workseven without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  Seeparagraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreementand help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.  See paragraph 1.E below.1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ([DIALOGUE]"the Foundation"
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in thecollection are in the public domain in the United States.  If anindividual work is in the public domain in the United States and you arelocated in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you fromcopying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivativeworks based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenbergare removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the ProjectGutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works byfreely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms ofthis agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated withthe work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]keeping this work in the same format with its attached full ProjectGutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also governwhat you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, checkthe laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreementbefore downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing orcreating derivative works based on this work or any other ProjectGutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerningthe copyright status of any work in any country outside the UnitedStates.1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediateaccess to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominentlywhenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which thephrase [DIALOGUE]"Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase [DIALOGUE]"ProjectGutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,copied or distributed:This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and withalmost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License includedwith this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it isposted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copiedand distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any feesor charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a workwith the phrase [DIALOGUE]"Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on thework, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or1.E.9.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is postedwith the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distributionmust comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linkedto the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with thepermission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of thiswork or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, withoutprominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 withactive links or immediate access to the full terms of the ProjectGutenberg-tm License.1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including anyword processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to ordistribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than[DIALOGUE][DIALOGUE]"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official versionposted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide acopy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy uponrequest, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or otherform.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm worksunless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providingaccess to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works providedthat- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][ACTION]     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the     address specified in Section 4, [DIALOGUE]"Information about donations to     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm     License.  You must require such a user to return or     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of     Project Gutenberg-tm works.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days     of receipt of the work.- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tmelectronic work or group of works on different terms than are setforth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing fromboth the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and MichaelHart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][SETTING]Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.1.F.1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofreadpublic domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tmcollection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain[DIALOGUE]"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate orcorrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectualproperty infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, acomputer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read byyour equipment.1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the ProjectGutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a ProjectGutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim allliability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legalfees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICTLIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSEPROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BELIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE ORINCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCHDAMAGE.1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you canreceive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending awritten explanation to the person you received the work from.  If youreceived the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium withyour written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you withthe defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of arefund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entityproviding it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity toreceive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER][CONFLICT][PROBLEM]is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without furtheropportunities to fix the problem.1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHERWARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TOWARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates thelaw of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall beinterpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted bythe applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of anyprovision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyoneproviding copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordancewith this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you door cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tmwork, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to anyProject Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tmProject Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution ofelectronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computersincluding obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It existsbecause of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations frompeople in all walks of life.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with theassistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm'sgoals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection willremain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the ProjectGutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secureand permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundationand how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4and the Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/pglaf.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary ArchiveFoundationThe Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of thestate of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the InternalRevenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identificationnumber is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extentpermitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scatteredthroughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, emailbusiness@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]information can be found at the Foundation's web site and officialpage at http://www.gutenberg.net/about/contactFor additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby     Chief Executive and Director     gbnewby@pglaf.org
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project GutenbergLiterary Archive FoundationProject Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission ofincreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can befreely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widestarray of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exemptstatus with the IRS.The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulatingcharities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the UnitedStates.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep upwith these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locationswhere we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  ToSEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for anyparticular state visit http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/donate
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where wehave not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibitionagainst accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states whoapproach us with offers to donate.International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot makeany statements concerning tax treatment of donations received fromoutside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donationmethods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of otherways including including checks, online payments and credit carddonations.  To donate, please visit:http://www.gutenberg.net/fundraising/donate
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronicworks.Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tmconcept of a library of electronic works that could be freely sharedwith anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printededitions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
[JOHN MEADE FALKNER]keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:     http://www.gutenberg.netThis Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg LiteraryArchive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how tosubscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
