Every body is a book of blood;
Wherever we're opened, we're red.

Contents
The Book of Blood
The M idnight Meat T rain
The Yattering and Jack
Pig Blood Blues
Sex, Death, and Starshine
In the Hills, the Cities
Dread
Hell's Event
Jacqueline Ess: Her W ill and Testament
The Skins of the Fathers
New M urders in the Rue Morgue
The Inhuman Condition
The Body P olitic
Revelations
Down, Satan!
The Age of Desire
The Forbidden
The M adonna
Babel's Children
In The Flesh
The Last Illusion
How Spoilers Bleed
The Life of Dea th
Twilight at the Towe rs
The Book of Blood (a postscript): On Jerusalem Street

THE BOOK OF BLOOD
TH E D EAD HAVE highways.
They run, unerring lines of ghost-trains, of dream-carriages, across the wasteland behind our lives, bearing an
endless traffic of departed souls. Their thrum and throb can be heard in the broken places of the world, through
cracks made by acts of cruelty, violence and depravity. Their freight, the wandering dead, can be glimpsed when the
heart is close to bursting, and sights that should be hidden come plainly into view.
They have sign-posts, these highways, and bridges and lay-bys. They have turnp ikes and intersections.
It is at these intersections, where the crowd s of dead m ingle and cro ss, that this forb idden highway is most likely to
spill through into our world. The traffic is hea vy at the cross-roads, and the voices of the dead are at their most shrill.
Here the b arriers that sepa rate one reality from the next are worn thin with the p assage of innum erable feet.
Such an intersection on the highway of the dead was located at Number 65, Tollington Place. Just a brick-fronted,
mock-Georgian detached house, Number 65 was unremarkable in every other way. An old, forgettable house,
stripped of the cheap grandeur it had once laid claim to, it had stood empty for a decade or more.
It was not rising damp that drove tenants from Number 65. It was not the rot in the cellars, or the subsidence that had
opened a crack in the front of the house that ran from doorstep to eaves, it was the noise of passage. In the upper
storey the din of that traffic never ceased. It cracked the plaster on the walls and it warped the beams. It rattled the
windows. It rattled the mind too. Number 65, Tollington Place was a haunted house, and no-one could possess it for
long without insanity setting in.
At some time in its history a horror had been comm itted in that house. No-one knew when, or what. But even to the
untrained observer the oppressive atmosphere of the house, particularly the top storey, was unmistakable. There was
a memory and a prom ise of blood in the air of Number 65 , a scent that lingered in the sinuses, and turned the
strongest stomach. The building and its environs were shunned by vermin, by birds, even by flies. No woodlice
crawled in its kitchen, no starling had nested in its attic. Whatever violence had been do ne there, it had opened the
house up, as surely as a knife slits a fish's belly; and through that cut, that wo und in the world, the d ead peered out,
and had their say.
That was the rumour anyway. It was the third week of the investigation at 65, Tollington Place. Three weeks of
unprecedented success in the realm of the paranormal. Using a newcomer to the business, a twenty-year-old called
Simo n M cNeal, as a m edium , the Essex U niversity P arapsychology U nit had recorded all but incontro vertible
evidence of life after death.
In the top room of the house, a claustrophobic corridor of a room , the McNeal bo y had apparently summoned the
dead, and at his request they had left co pious evide nce o f their visits, writing in a hund red d ifferent hands o n the pale
ochre walls. T hey wro te, it seemed, wh atever came into their head s. Their nam es, of co urse, and their b irth and death
dates. Fragments of memories, and well-wishes to their living descendants, strange elliptical phrases that hinted at
their present torments and mourned their lost joys. Some of the hands were square and ugly, some delicate and
feminine. There were obscene drawings and half-finished jokes alongside lines of romantic poetry. A badly drawn
rose. A game of nou ghts and crosse s. A sho pping list.
The famous had come to this wailing wall - Mussolini was there, Lennon and Janis Joplin - and nobodies too,
forgotten people, had signed themselves beside the greats. It was a roll-call of the dead, and it was growing day by
day, as though word of m outh was spre ading amo ngst the lost tribes, and sed ucing them o ut of silence to sign this
barren room with their sacred presence.
After a lifetime's work in the field of psychic research, Doctor Florescu was well accustomed to the hard facts of
failure. It had been almost comfortable, settling back into a certainty that the evidence would never manifest itself.
Now, faced with a sudden and spectacular success, she felt both elated and confused.
She sat, as she had sat for three incredible weeks, in the main room on the middle floor, one flight of stairs down
from the writing room, and listened to the clamou r of noises from upstairs with a sort of awe, scarce ly daring to
believe that she was allowed to be present at this miracle. There had been nibbles before, tantalizing hints of voices
from another world, but this was the first time that province had insisted on being heard.
Upstairs, the noises stopped.
Mary looked at her watch: it was six-seventeen p.m.
For some reason best known to the visitors, the contact never lasted much after six. She'd wait 'til half-past then go
up. W hat would it have been today? Who would have come to that sordid little room, and left their mark?
"Shall I set up the cameras?" Reg Fuller, her assistant, asked.

"Please," she murmured, distracted by expectation.
"Wonder what we'll get today?"
"W e'll leave him ten minu tes."
"Sure."
Up stairs, M cNeal slumped in the corner o f the roo m, and watche d the O ctober sun through the tiny window . He felt
a little shut in, all alone in that damn place, but he still smiled to himself, that warm, beatific smile that melted even
the most acad emic heart. Especially Doctor Florescu's: oh yes, the woman was infatuated with his smile, his eyes,
the lost look he put on for her.
It was a fine game.
Indeed, at first that was all it had been - a game. Now Simon knew they were playing for bigger stakes; what had
begun as a sort of lie-detection test had turned into a very serious contest: McNeal versus the Truth. The truth was
simple: he was a chea t. He p enned all his "ghost-writings' on the wall with tiny sha rds of lead he secreted under his
tongue: he banged and thrashed and shouted without any provocation other than the sheer mischief of it: and the
unknown names he wrote, ha, he laughed to think of it, the names he found in telephone directories.
Yes, it was indeed a fine game.
She promised him so much, she tempted him with fame, encouraging every lie that he invented. Promises of wealth,
of applauded app earances on the television, of an adulation he'd never known before. As long as he produced the
ghosts.
He smiled the smile again. She called him her Go-Between: an innocent carrier of messages. She'd be up the stairs
soon - her eyes on his body, his voice close to tears with her pathetic excitement at another series of scrawled names
and nonsense.
He liked it when she looked at his naked ness, or all but na kedness. All his sessions were carried out with him only
dressed in a pair of briefs, to preclude any hidden aids. A ridiculous precaution. All he needed were the leads under
his tongue, and enough ene rgy to fling himself aro und fo r half an hour, b ellowing his head off.
He was sweating. The groove of his breast-bone was slick with it, his hair plastered to his pale forehead. Today had
been hard work: he was looking forward to getting out of the ro om, sluicing him self down, and basking in
admiration awhile. The G o-Between put his hand down his briefs and played with himself, idly. Somewhere in the
room a fly, or flies maybe, were trapped. It was late in the season for flies, but he could hear them somewhere close.
They buzzed and fre tted against the wind ow , or around the light bulb. He heard their tiny fly voices, but didn't
question them, too engro ssed in his thoug hts of the game, and in the simp le deligh t of stroking himself.
How they buzzed, these harmless insect voices, buzzed and sang and complained. How they complained.
Mary Florescu drumm ed the table with her fingers. Her wedding ring was loose today, she felt it moving with the
rhythm of her tapping. Sometimes it was tight and sometimes loose: one of those small mysteries that she'd never
analysed prop erly b ut sim ply accep ted. In fact toda y it was very lo ose: almo st ready to fall o ff. She thought of Alan's
face. Alan's dear face. She thought of it through a hole made of her wedding ring, as if down a tunnel. Was that what
his death had been like: being carried away and yet further away down a tunnel to the dark? She thrust the ring
deeper on to her hand. Through the tips of her index-finger and thumb she seemed almost to taste the sour metal as
she touched it. It was a curious sensation, an illusion of some kind.
To wash the bitterness away she thought of the boy. His face came easily, so very easily, splashing into her
consciousness with his smile and his unremarkable physique, still unmanly. Like a girl really - the roundness of him,
the sweet clarity of his skin - the innocence.
Her fingers were still on the ring, and the sourness she had tasted grew. She looked up. Fuller was organizing the
equipment. Aro und his balding head a nim bus o f pale green light shimmered and w ove -She sudde nly felt giddy.
Fuller sa w nothing and heard nothing . His head was bo wed to his business, engrossed. M ary stared at him still,
seeing the halo on him, feeling new sensations waking in her, coursing through her. The air seemed suddenly alive:
the very molecules of oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen jostled against her in an intimate embrace. The nimbus around
Fuller's head was spreading, finding fellow radiance in every object in the room. The unnatural sense in her
fingertips was spreading too. She could see the colour of her breath as she exhaled it: a pinky orange glamour in the
bubbling air. She could hear, quite clearly, the voice of the desk she sat at: the low whine of its solid presence.
The world was o pening up : throwing her senses into an ecstasy, coaxing them into a wild confusion o f functions.
She was ca pable, suddenly, of knowing the world as a system, no t of politics or religions, but as a system of senses,
a system that spread out from the living flesh to the inert wood of her desk, to the stale gold of her wedding ring.
And further. Beyond wood, beyond gold. The crack opened that led to the highway. In her head she heard voices that
came from no living mouth.
She looked up, or rather some force thrust her head back violently and she found herself staring up at the ceiling. It

was covered with worms. No, that was absurd! It seemed to be alive, though, maggoty with life - pulsing, dancing.
She could see the boy through the ceiling. He was sitting on the floor, with his jutting member in his hand. His head
was thrown back, like hers. He was as lost in his ecstasy as she was. Her new sight saw the throbbing light in and
around his body - traced the passion that was seated in his gut, and his head molten with pleasure.
It saw another sight, the lie in him , the absence of po wer where she'd thought there had b een so mething won derful.
He had no talent to com mune with gho sts, nor ha d eve r had, she saw this plainly. H e was a little liar, a boy-liar, a
sweet, white boy-liar without the compassion or the wisdom to understand what he had dared to do.
Now it was done. The lies were told, the tricks were played, and the people on the highway, sick beyond death of
being misrepresented and mocked, were buzzing at the crack in the wall, and demanding satisfaction.
That crack she had opened : she had unknowingly fingered and fumbled at, unlocking it by slow degrees. Her desire
for the boy had done that: her endless thoughts of him, her frustration, her heat and her disgust at her heat had pulled
the crack wider. Of all the po wers tha t made the system manifest, love, an d its compa nion, p assion, and the ir
companion, loss, were the most potent. Here she was, an embodiment of all three. Loving, and wanting, and sensing
acutely the impossibility of the form er two. W rapp ed up in an agony of feeling which she had denied herself,
believing she loved the boy simply as her Go-Between.
It wasn't true! It wasn't true! She wanted him, wanted him now, deep inside her. Except that now it was too late.
The traffic could be denied no longer: it demanded , yes, it demanded access to the little trickster.
She was helpless to prevent it. All she could do was utter a tiny gasp of horror as she saw the highway open out
before her, and understood that this was no com mon intersection they sto od at.
Fuller heard the sound.
"Doctor?" He looked up from his tinkering and his face - washed with a blue light she could see from the corner of
her eye - bore an exp ression of enq uiry.
"Did you say something?" he asked.
She thought, with a fillip of her stomach, of how this was bound to end.
The ether-faces of the dead were quite clear in front of her. She could see the profundity of their suffering and she
could sympathize with their ache to be heard.
She saw plainly that the highways that crossed at Tollington Place were not common thoroughfares. She was not
staring at the happy, idling traffic of the ordinary dead. No, that house opened o nto a route walked only by the
victims and the perpetrators of violence. The men, the women, the children who had died end uring all the pains
nerves had wit to muster, with their minds brand ed by the circum stances of their deaths. Eloquent beyond words,
their eyes spoke their agonies, their ghost bodies still bearing the wounds that had killed them. She could also see,
mingling freely with the innocents, their slaughterers and tormentors. These monsters, frenzied, mush-minded bloodletters, peeked through into the world: nonesuch creatures, unspoken, forbidden miracles of our species, chattering
and howling their Ja bbe rwoc ky.
Now the boy abo ve her sensed them. She saw him turn a little in the silent room, knowing that the voices he heard
were not fly-voices, the complaints were not insect-complaints. He was aware, suddenly, that he had lived in a tiny
corner of the world, and that the rest of it, the Third, Fourth and Fifth W orlds, were pressing at his lying back,
hungry and irrevocable. The sight of his panic was also a smell and a taste to her. Yes, she tasted him as she had
always longed to, but it was not a kiss that married their senses, it was his growing panic. It filled her up: her
empathy was total. The fearful glance was hers as much as his - their dry throats rasped the same small word:
"Please -"
That the child learns. "Please -, That wins care and gifts.
"Please -"
That even the dead, surely, even the dead m ust know and obey.
"Please -"
To day there would be no su ch me rcy given, she knew for certain. These ghosts had despaired on the highw ay a
grieving age, bearing the wounds they had died with, and the insanities they had slaughtered with. They had endured
his levity and insolence, his idiocies, the fabrications that had made a game of their ordeals. They wanted to speak
the truth.
Fuller was peering at her more closely, his face now swimming in a sea of pulsing orange light. She felt his hands on
her skin. They tasted of vinegar.
"Are you all right?" he said, his breath like iron.
She shook her head.
No , she was not all right, nothing was right.
The crack was gaping wider every second: through it she could see another sky, the slate heavens that loured over

the highway. It overwhelmed the mere reality of the house.
"Please," she said, her eyes rolling up to the fading substance of the ceiling.
W ider. W ider -T he brittle world she inhabited was stretched to breaking p oint.
Suddenly, it broke, like a dam, and the black waters poured through, inundating the room.
Fuller knew something was amiss (it was in the colour of his aura, the sudden fear), but he didn't understand what
was happe ning. She felt his spine ripp le: she co uld see his brain whirl.
"W hat's going on?" he said. The pathos of the enquiry made her want to laugh.
Upstairs, the water-jug in the writing room shattered.
Fuller let her go and ran towards the door. It began to rattle and shake even as he approached it, as though all the
inhabitants of hell were beating on the other side. The handle turned and turned and turned. The paint blistered. The
key glowed red-ho t.
Fuller looked back at the Doctor, who was still fixed in that grotesque position, head back, eyes wide.
He reached for the handle, but the door opened before he could touch it. The hallway beyond had disappeared
altogether. Where the familiar interior had stood the vista of the highway stretched to the horizon. The sight killed
Fuller in a moment. His mind had no strength to take the panorama in - it could not control the overload that ran
through his every nerve. H is heart sto ppe d; a rev olution overturned the ord er of his system; his bladder failed, his
bow els failed, his limbs shook and collapsed. A s he sank to the floor his face beg an to b lister like the d oor, and his
corp se rattle like the handle. H e was inert stuff already: as fit for this ind ignity as wo od o r steel.
Somewhere to the East his soul joined the wounded highway, on its route to the intersection where a moment
previously he had died.
Mary Florescu knew she was alone. Above her the marvellous boy, her beautiful, cheating child, was writhing and
screeching as the dead set their vengeful hands o n his fresh sk in. She knew the ir intention: she could see it in their
eyes - there was no thing new about it. Every history had this particular torm ent in its tradition. He was to be use d to
record their testame nts. He was to b e their page, their boo k, the vessel for their autob iographies. A bo ok of blood. A
book mad e of blood. A boo k written in blood. She thought of the grimoires that had been mad e of dead human skin:
she'd seen them, touch ed them. She thought of the tattooe s she'd seen: freak show exhibits some of them , others just
shirtless lab ourers in the Street with a message to the ir mothers pricked across their backs. It was not unkno wn, to
write a book of blood.
But on such skin, on such gleaming skin - oh God, that was the crime. He screamed as the torturing needles of
broken jug-glass skipped against his flesh, ploughing it up. She felt his agonies as if they had been hers, and they
were not so terrible.
Yet he screamed. And fought, and poured obscenities out at his attackers. They took no notice. They swarmed
around him, deaf to any plea or prayer, and worked on him with all the enthusiasm of creatures forced into silence
for too long. Mary listened as his voice wearied with its complaints, and she fought against the weight of fear in her
limbs. Somehow, she felt, she must get up to the room. It didn't matter what was beyond the door or on the stairs -he
needed her, and that was enough.
She sto od up and felt her hair swirl up from her head, flailing like the snake hair o f the Gorgo n M edusa. Reality
swam - there was scarcely a floor to be seen beneath her. The boa rds of the house were ghost-wood, and beyond
them a seething dark raged and yawned at her. She looked to the door, feeling all the time a lethargy that was so hard
to fight off.
Clearly they didn't want her up there. Maybe, she thought, they even fear me a little. The idea gave her resolution;
why else were they bothering to intimidate her unless her very presence, having once opened this hole in the world,
was now a threat to them?
The blistered door was open. Beyond it the reality of the house had succumbed completely to the howling chaos of
the highway. She stepped through, concentrating on the way her feet still touched solid floor even though her eyes
could no longer see it. The sky above her was prussian-blue, the highway was wide and windy, the dead pressed on
every side. She fought through them as through a crowd of living people, while their gawping, idiot faces looked at
her and hated her invasion.
The "please" was go ne. N ow she said nothing; just gritted her teeth and narrowed her eyes against the highway,
kicking her feet forward to find the reality of the stairs that she knew were there. She tripped as she touched them,
and a howl went up from the crowd. She couldn't tell if they were laughing at her clumsiness, or sounding a warning
at how far she ha d got.
First step. Second step. Third step.
Though she was torn at from every side, she was winning against the crowd. Ahead she could see through the door

of the room to where her little liar was sprawled, surrounded by his attackers. His briefs were around his ankles: the
scene looked like a kind of rape. He screamed no longer, but his eyes were wild with terror and pain. At least he was
still alive. The natural resilience of his young mind had half accepted the spectacle that had opened in front of him.
Suddenly his head jerked around and he looked straight through the door at her. In this extremity he had dredged up
a true talent, a skill that was a fraction of Mary's, but enough to make contact with her. Their eyes met. In a sea of
blue darkness, surrounded on every side with a civilization they neither knew nor understood, their living hearts met
and married.
"I'm sorry," he said silently. It was infinitely pitiful. "I'm sorry. I'm sorry." He looked away, his gaze wrenched from
hers.
She was certain she must be almost at the top of the stairs, her feet still treading air as far as her eyes could tell, the
faces of the travellers above, below and on every side of her. But she could see, very faintly, the outline of the door,
and the boards and beam s of the room where Simon lay. He was one mass of blood now, from head to foot. She
could see the marks, the hieroglyphics of agony on every inch of his torso, his face, his limbs. One mom ent he
seemed to flash into a kind of focus, and she could see him in the empty room, with the sun through the window, and
the shattered jug at his side. Then her concentration would falter and instead she'd see the invisible world made
visible, and he'd be hanging in the air while they wrote on him from every side, plucking out the hair on his head and
bod y to clear the pa ge, writing in his armpits, writing o n his eyelid s, writing on his genitals, in the crease of his
buttocks, on the soles of his feet.
Only the wounds were in common between the two sights. W hether she saw him beset with authors, or alone in the
room, he was bleeding and bleeding.
She had reached the d oor now. H er trem bling ha nd stretched to touch the solid reality of the hand le, but even with
all the concentration she could muster it would not come clear. There was barely a ghost-image for her to focus on,
though it was sufficient. She grasped the handle, turned it, and flung the door of the writing room open.
He was there, in front of her. No more than two or three yards of possessed air separated them. Their eyes met again,
and an eloquent look , common to the living and the dea d wo rlds, pa ssed b etween them. There wa s com passio n in
that look, and love. The fictions fell away, the lies were dust. In place of the boy's manipulative smiles was a true
sweetness - answered in her face.
And the dead, fearful of this look, turned their heads away. Their faces tightened, as though the skin was being
stretched over the bone, their flesh darkening to a bruise, their voices becoming wistful with the anticipation of
defeat. She reached to touch him, no longer having to fight against the hordes of the dead; they were falling away
from their quarry on every side, like dying flies dropping from a window.
She touched him, lightly, on the face. The touch was a benediction. Tears filled his eyes, and ran down his scarified
cheek, mingling with the blood.
The dead had no voices now, nor even mouths. They were lost along the highway, their malice dammed.
Plane by plane the room began to re-establish itself. The floor-boards became visible under his sobbing body, every
nail, every stained plank. The windows came clearly into view - and outside the twilight street was echoing with the
clamour o f children. The highway had disappe ared from living human sight entirely. Its travellers had turned their
faces to the dark and gone away into oblivion, leaving only their signs and their talismans in the concrete world.
On the middle landing of Number 65 the smoking, blistered body of Reg Fuller was casually trodden by the
travellers' feet as they passed over the intersection. At length Fuller's own soul came by in the throng and glanced
dow n at the flesh he had once occu pied, before the crowd presse d him on tow ards his judgement.
Upstairs, in the darkening room, Mary Florescu knelt beside the McNeal boy and stroked his blood-plastered head.
She didn't want to leave the house for assistance until she was certain his tormentors would not come back.
There was no sou nd now b ut the whine of a jet finding its way through the stratosphere to m orning. Even the bo y's
breathing was hushed and regular. No nimbus of light surrounded him. Every sense was in place. Sight. Sound.
Touch.
Touch.
She to uched him now a s she had never pre viously d ared, brushing her fing ertips, oh so lightly, over his b ody,
running her fingers across the raised skin like a blind woman reading braille. There were minute words on every
millimetre of his body, written in a multitude of hands. Even through the blood she could discern the meticulous way
that the words had harrowed into him. She could even read, by the dimming light, an occasional phrase. It was proof
beyond any doubt, and she wished, oh God how she wished, that she had not come by it. And yet, after a lifetime of
waiting, he re it was: the revelation of life beyond flesh, written in flesh itself.
The boy would survive, that was clear. Already the blood was drying, and the myriad wounds healing. He was
healthy and strong, after all: there would be no fundamental physical damage. His beauty was gone forever, of

course. From now on he would b e an object of curiosity at best, and at worst of repugnance and horror. But she
would protect him, and he would learn, in time, how to know and trust her. Their hearts were inextricably tied
together.
And after a time , when the words on his bo dy were scabs and scars, she wo uld rea d him. She would trace, with
infinite love and patience, the stories the dead had told on him.
The tale on his abdom en, written in a fine, cursive style. T he testimony in exquisite, elegant print that covered his
face and sca lp. The story on his back, and on his shin, on his hands.
She wo uld read them all, report them all, every last syllable that glistened and seep ed ben eath her ado ring fingers, so
that the world would know the stories that the dead tell.
He was a B ook of Blood , and she his sole translator.
As darkness fell, she left off her vigil and led him , naked , into the b almy night.
Here then are the stories written on the Book o f Blood. Read, if it pleases you, and learn.
They are a map of that dark high way that leads o ut of life towards unknown de stinations. Few will have to take it.
Most will go peac efully along lamp lit streets, ushered o ut of living with prayers and caresses. But for a few , a
chosen few, the horrors will come, skipping to fetch them off to the highway of the damned.
So read. Read and learn.
It's best to be prepared for the worst, after all, and wise to learn to w alk before breath runs out.

TH E M IDN IGH T M EAT TRA IN
LEON KA UF MAN W AS no longer new to the city. The Palace of Deligh ts, he'd always called it, in the days o f his
innocence. But that was when he lived Atlanta, and New Y ork still a kind promised land, where anything everything
possible.
Now Kaufman had lived three and a half months in his dream-city, and the Palace of Delights seemed less than
delightful.
W as it really only a season since he stepped out of Po rt Authority Bus Station and looked up 42nd Street towards the
Bro adway intersection? So short a time to lose so man y treasured illusions.
He was emb arrassed now even to think of his naivety. It made him wince to remember how he had stood and
announced aloud:
"N ew Y ork, I love you."
Love? N ever.
It had been at best an infatuation.
And now, after only three months living with his object of adoration, spending his days and nights in her presence,
she had lost he r aura of perfection. New Yo rk was just a city.
He had seen her wake in the morning like a slut, and pick murdered men from between her teeth, and suicides from
the tangles of her hair. He had seen her late at night, her dirty back streets shamelessly courting depravity. He had
watched her in the hot afternoon, sluggish and ugly, indifferent to the atrocities that were being committed every
hour in her throttled p assages.
It was no Pa lace of De lights.
It bred death, not pleasure.
Everyone he met had brushed with violence; it was a fact of life. It was almost chic to have known someone who
had died a violent death. It was proof of living in that city.
But Kaufman had loved New York fro m afar for almost twenty years. H e'd planned his love affair for m ost of his
adult life. It was not easy, therefore, to shake the passion off, as though he had never felt it. There were still times,
very early, before the cop-sirens began, or at twilight, when Manhattan was still a miracle.
For those moments, and for the sake of his dreams, he still gave her the benefit of the doubt, even when her
behaviour was less than ladylike.
She didn't make such forgiveness easy. In the few months that Kaufman had lived in New York her streets had been
awash with spilt blood.
In fact, it was not so much the streets themselves, but the tunnels beneath those streets.
"Subway Slaughter" was the catch-phrase of the month. Only the previous week another three killings had been

reported. The bodies had been discovered in one of the subway cars on the AVEN UE O F THE AME RICAS, hacked
open and partially disembowelled, as though an efficient abattoir operative had been interrupted in his work. The
killings were so thoroughly professional that the police were interviewing every man on their records who had some
past connection with the butchery trade. The meat-packaging plants on the water-front were being watched, the
slaughter-houses scoured for clues. A swift arrest was promised, though none was made.
This recent trio of corpses was not the first to be discovered in such a state; the very day that Kaufman had arrived a
story had broken in The Times that was still the talk of every morbid secretary in the office.
The story went that a German visitor, lost in the subway system late at night, had come across a bo dy in a train. The
victim was a well-built, attractive thirty-year-old woman from B rooklyn. She had been completely stripped. Every
shred of clothing, eve ry article of jewellery. Even the studs in her ea rs.
More b izarre than the stripping was the neat and system atic way in which the clothes had been folded and p laced in
individual plastic bags on the seat beside the corpse.
This was no irrational slasher at work. T his was a highly-organized mind: a lunatic with a strong sense o f tidiness.
Further, and yet more bizarre than the careful stripping of the corpse, was the outrage that had then been perpetrated
upon it. The reports claimed, though the Police Department failed to confirm this, that the body had been
meticulously shaved. Every hair had been removed: from the head, from the groin, from beneath the arms; all cut
and scorc hed back to the flesh. Even the eyebrows and eyelashes had been plucked out.
Finally, this all too naked slab had been hung by the feet from one of the holding handles set in the roof of the car,
and a black plastic bucket, lined with a blac k plastic bag, had been p laced bene ath the corpse to ca tch the steady fall
of blood from its wounds.
In that state, stripped, shaved, suspended and practically bled white, the body of Loretta Dyer had been found.
It was disgusting, it was meticulous, and it was deeply confusing.
There had b een no rape, nor any sign of torture. The woman had b een swiftly and efficiently dispatched as though
she was a piece of meat. And the butcher was still loose.
The City Fathers, in their wisdom, declared a complete close-down on press reports of the slaughter. It was said that
the man who had found the body was in protective custody in New Jersey, out of sight of enquiring journalists. But
the cover-up had failed. So me greedy cop had leaked the salient details to a reporter fro m T he T imes. E veryone in
New York now knew the horrible story of the slaughters. It was a topic of conversation in every Deli and bar; and, of
course, on the subway.
But Loretta Dyer was only the first.
Now three more bodies had been found in identical circumstances; though the work had clearly been interrupted on
this occasion. Not all the bodies had been shaved, and the jugulars had not been severed to bleed them. There was
another, mo re significant difference in the discovery: it was not a tourist who had stumbled on the sight, it was a
reporter from The N ew Yo rk Times.
Kaufman surveyed the report that sprawled across the front page of the newspaper. He had no prurient interest in the
story, unlike his elbow m ate along the counter of the D eli. All he felt was a mild disgu st, that mad e him p ush his
plate of over-cooked eggs aside. It was simply further proof of his city's decadence. He could take no pleasure in her
sickness.
Nevertheless, being human, he could not entirely ignore the gory details on the page in front of him. The article was
unsensationa lly written, but the simp le clarity of the style made the subject seem more app alling. He cou ldn't help
wondering, too, about the man behind the atrocities. Was there one psychotic loose, or several, each inspired to copy
the original murder? Perhaps this was only the beginning of the horror. Maybe more murders would follow, until at
last the murderer, in his ex hilaration or exhaustion, wo uld step beyond ca ution and be taken. Until then the city,
Kaufman's adored city, wo uld live in a state somewhere b etween hysteria and ecstasy.
At his elbow a bearded man knocked over Kaufman's coffee.
"Shit!" he said.
Kaufman shifted on his stool to avoid the dribble of coffee running off the counter.
"Shit," the man said again.
No harm d one," said Kaufman.
He looked at the man with a slightly disdainful expression on his face. The clumsy bastard was attempting to soak
up the coffee with a napkin, which was turning to mush as he did so.
Kaufman found himself wondering if this oaf, with his florid cheeks and his uncultivated beard, was capable of
murder. Was there any sign on that over-fed face, any clue in the shape of his head or the turn of his small eyes that
gave his true nature away?
The man spoke.
"Wannanother?"

Kaufman shook his head.
"Coffee. R egular. Dark," the oaf said to the girl b ehind the counter. She loo ked up from clea ning the grill of cold fat.
"Huh?"
"Coffee. You deaf?"
The man grinned at Kaufman.
"Deaf," he said.
Kaufman noticed he had three teeth missing from his lower jaw.
"Looks bad, huh?" he said.
W hat did he mean? The coffee? The absence of his teeth?
"Three people like that. Carved up." Kaufman nodded.
"M akes yo u think," he said. "Sure."
"I mean, it's a cover-up isn't it? The y know who d id it."
This conversation's ridiculous, thought Kaufman. He took off his spectacles and pocketed them: the bearded face
was no longer in focus. That was so me improvement at least.
"B astards," he sa id. "Fucking bastards, all of the m. I'll lay you anything it's a cover-up."
"Of what?"
"T hey got the evidence: they're just keeping us in the fucking dark. T here's something out there that's not human."
Kaufman understood. It was a conspiracy theory the oaf was trotting out. He'd heard them so often; a panacea.
"See, they do all this cloning stuff and it gets out of hand.
They could be growing fucking monsters for all we know.
There's som ething d own there they won't tell us ab out.
Cover-up , like I say. Lay you anything." K aufma n found the m an's certainty attractive. Monsters, on the prowl. Six
head s: a dozen eyes. W hy not?
He knew why not. Because that excused his city: that let her off the hook. And Kaufman believed in his heart that
the monsters to be found in the tunnels were perfectly human.
The bea rded man threw his m oney on the counter and got up , sliding his fat b ottom off the staine d plastic stool.
"Probably a fucking cop," he said, as his parting shot. "Tried to make a fucking hero, made a fucking monster
instead." He grinned grotesquely. "Lay you anything," he continued and lumbered out without another word.
Kaufman slowly exhaled through his nose, feeling the tension in his body abate.
He hated that sort of confrontation: it made him feel tongue-tied and ineffectual. Come to think of it, he hated that
kind o f man: the opinionated brute that N ew Y ork b red so well.
It was co ming up to six w hen M ahogany woke. The mo rning rain had turned into a light d rizzle b y twilight. The air
was about as clear-smelling as it ever got in Manhattan. He stretched on his bed, threw off the dirty blanket and got
up for work.
In the bathroom the rain was dripping on the box of the air-conditioner, filling the apartment with a rhythmical
slapping sound. Mahogany turned on the television to cover the noise, uninterested in anything it had to offer.
He went to the window. The street six floors below was thick with traffic and people.
After a hard day's work New Y ork was on its way home: to play, to m ake love. Peop le were streaming out of their
offices and into their autom obiles. Som e would b e testy after a day's sweaty labour in a badly-aired office; others,
benign as she ep, wo uld be wandering hom e down the A venues, ushered along b y a ceaseless current of bod ies. Still
others would even now be cramm ing on to the sub way, blind to the graffiti on every wa ll, deaf to the bab ble of their
own vo ices, and to the cold thunder o f the tunnels.
It pleased Mahogany to think of that. He was, after all, not one of the common herd. He could stand at his window
and look down o n a thousand heads below him, and know he was a chosen man.
He had deadlines to meet, of course, like the people in the street. But his work was not their senseless labour, it was
more like a sacred duty.
He needed to live, and sleep, and shit like them, too. But it was not financial necessity that drove him, but the
dem ands of history.
He was in a great tradition, that stretched further back than America. He was a night-stalker: like Jack the Ripper,
like Gilles de Rais, a living embodiment of death, a wraith with a human face. He was a haunter of sleep, and an
awakene r of terrors.
The peo ple below him could not know his face; nor would care to look twice at him. But his stare caught them, and
weighed them up, selecting only the ripest from the p assing p arade, choosing o nly the healthy and the young to fall
under his sanctified knife.

Som etimes Mahogany longed to announc e his identity to the wo rld, but he had respo nsibilities and they b ore o n him
heavily. He couldn't expect fame. His was a secret life, and it was merely pride that longed for recognition.
After all, he thought, does the b eef salute the butcher as it throbs to its knees?
All in all, he was content. To be part of that great tradition was enough, would always have to remain enough.
Recently, however, there had been discoveries. They weren't his fault of course. Nobody could possibly blame him.
But it was a bad time. Life was not as easy as it had been ten years ago. He was that much older, of course, and that
made the job mo re exhausting; and more and m ore the obligations weighed on his shoulders. He was a chosen man,
and that was a difficult privilege to live with.
He wondered, now and then, if it wasn't time to think about training a younger man for his duties. There would need
to be consultations with the Fathers, but sooner or later a replacement would have to be found, and it would be, he
felt, a criminal waste of his experience not to take on an apprentice.
There we re so m any felicities he cou ld pass on. T he tricks of his extra ordinary trad e. The be st way to stalk, to cut, to
strip, to bleed. The best meat for the purpose. The simplest way to dispose of the remains. So much detail, so much
accumulated expertise.
Maho gany wandered into the bathroom and turned on the shower. As he stepped in he looked down at his body. The
small paunch, the greying hairs on his sagging chest, the scars, and pimples that littered his pale skin. He was getting
old. Still, tonight, like every other night, he had a job to do.
Kaufman hurried back into the lobby with his sandwich, turning down his collar and brushing rain off his hair. The
clock above the elevator read seven-sixteen. He would work through until ten, no later.
The elevator took him up to the twelfth floor and to the Pappas offices. He traipsed unhappily through the maze of
empty desks and hooded machines to his little territory, which was still illuminated. The women who cleaned the
offices were chatting do wn the corrido r: otherwise the place w as lifeless.
He took off his coat, shook the rain off it as best he could, and hung it up.
Then he sat down in front of the piles of orders he had been tussling with for the best part of three days, and began
work. It would only take one m ore night's labour, he felt sure, to break the back of the jo b, and he found it easier to
concentrate without the incessant clatter of typists and typewriters on every side.
He unwrapp ed his ham on whole-wheat with extra mayonnaise and settled in for the evening.
It was nine now.
Mahogany was dressed for the nightshift. He had his usual sober suit on, with his brown tie neatly knotted, his silver
cufflinks (a gift from his first wife) plac ed in the sleeves of his imm aculately pressed shirt, his thinning hair
gleaming with oil, his nails snipped and polished, his face flushed with cologne.
His bag was packed. T he towels, the instruments, his chain-mail apron.
He checked his appea rance in the mirror. He could, he thought, still be taken for a man of forty-five, fifty at the
outside.
As he surveye d his face he reminded him self of his duty. Above all, he must be ca reful. T here w ould be eye s on him
every step of the way, watching his performance tonight, and judging it. He must walk out like an innocent, arousing
no suspicion.
If they only knew, he thought. The pe ople who w alked , ran and skipped past him on the streets: who collided w ith
him without ap ology: who m et his gaze with co ntemp t:
who smiled at his bulk, looking uneasy in his ill-fitting suit. If only they knew what he did, what he was and what he
carried.
Caution, he sa id to him self, and turned off the light. T he ap artment was d ark. H e went to the door and o pened it,
used to walking in blackness. Happy in it.
The rain clouds had cleared entirely. Ma hoga ny mad e his way dow n Am sterdam towards the Sub way at 145th
Street. To night he'd take the AV EN UE OF T HE AM ERICAS again, his favourite line, and often the mo st
productive.
Do wn the S ubway steps, token in hand . Through the automatic gates. T he smell of the tunnels was in his nostrils
now. Not the smell of the deep tunnels of course. They had a scent all of their own. But there was reassurance even
in the stale electric air of this shallow line. The regurgitated breath of a million travellers circulated in this warren,
mingling with the breath of creatures far older; things with voices soft like clay, whose appetites were abominable.
How he loved it. The scent, the dark, the thunder.
He stood on the platform and scanned his fellow-travellers critically. There were one or two bodies he contemplated
following, but there was so much dross amongst them: so few worth the chase. The physically wasted, the obese, the
ill, the weary. Bodies destroyed by excess and by indifference. As a professional it sickened him, though he

understood the weakness that spoiled the best of men.
He lingered in the station for over an hour, wandering between platforms while the trains came and went, came and
went, and the p eop le with them . There wa s so little of quality around it wa s dispiriting. It seem ed he had to wait
longer and longer every day to find flesh worthy of use.
It was now almost half past ten and he had not seen a single creature who was really ideal for slaughter.
No matter, he told himself, there was time yet. V ery soo n the theatre cro wd would be em erging. They were always
good for a sturdy body or two. The well-fed intelligentsia, clutching their ticket-stubs and opining on the diversions
of art - oh yes, there'd be something there.
If not, and there were nights when it seemed he would never find something suitable, he'd have to ride downtown
and corner a couple of lovers out late, or find an athlete or two, fresh from one of the gyms. They were always sure
to offer good material, except that with such healthy specimens there was always the risk of resistance.
He remembered catching two black bucks a year ago or more, with maybe forty years between them, father and son
perhaps. They'd resisted with knives, and he'd been hospitalised for six weeks. It had been a close fought encounter
and one that had set him d oubting his skills. W orse, it had ma de him wond er wha t his masters would have done with
him had he suffered a fatal injury. Wo uld he have been delivered to his family in New Jersey, and given a decent
Christian burial? Or would his carcass have been thrown into the dark, for their own use?
The headline of the New Yo rk Post, discarded on the seat across from him caught Maho gany's eye: "Police All-Out
to Catch Killer". He couldn't resist a smile. Thoughts of failure, weakness and death evaporated. After all, he was
that man, that killer, and tonight the thought of capture was laughable. After all, wasn't his career sanctioned by the
highest possible authorities? No policeman could hold him, no court pass judgement on him. The very forces of law
and order that made such a show of his pursuit serve d his masters no less than he; he alm ost wishe d som e two-b it
cop would catch him, take him in triumph before the judge, just to see the looks on their faces when the word came
up from the d ark that M ahogany was a protected man, ab ove every law on the statute boo ks.
It was now well after ten-thirty. The trickle of theatregoers had begun, but there was nothing likely so far. He'd want
to let the rush pass anyway: just follow one or two choice pieces to the end of the line. He bided his time, like any
wise hunter.
Kaufman was not finished by eleven, an hour after he'd promised himself release. But exasperation and ennui were
making the job more difficult, and the sheets of figures were beginning to blur in front of him. At ten past eleven he
threw down his pen and admitted defeat. He rubbed his hot eyes with the cushions of his palms till his head filled
with colours.
"Fuck it," he said.
He never swore in company. But once in a while to say fuck it to himself was a great consolation. He made his way
out of the office, d amp coat o ver his arm, and hea ded for the elevator. His limbs felt drugged and his eyes would
scarcely stay open.
It was colder outside than he had anticipated, and the air brought him out of his lethargy a little. He walked towards
the Subway at 34th Street. Catch an Express to Far Rockaway. Ho me in an hour.
Neither Kaufman nor M ahogany knew it, but at 96th and Broadw ay the Police had arrested what they took to be the
Subway Killer, having trapped him in one of the up-town trains. A small man of European extraction, wielding a
hammer and a saw, had cornered a young woman in the second car and threatened to cut her in half in the name of
Jehovah.
W hether he was capable of fulfilling his threat was doubtful. As it was, he didn't get the chance. While the rest of the
passengers (including two Marines) looked on, the intended victim landed a kick to the man's testicles. He dropped
the hammer. She picked it up and broke his lower jaw and right cheek-bone with it before the Marines stepped in.
W hen the train halted at 96th the Police were waiting to arrest the Subway Butcher. They rushed the car in a horde,
yelling like banshees and scared as shit. The Butcher was lying in one corner of the car with his face in pieces. They
carted him away, triumphant. T he wom an, after questioning, went home with the M arines.
It was to be a useful diversion, though M ahogany couldn't know it at the time. It took the Police the best part of the
night to determine the identity of their prisoner, chiefly because he couldn't do more than drool through his shattered
jaw. It wasn't until three-thirty in the morning that one C aptain Davis, coming on duty, recognized the man as a
retired flower salesman from the Bronx called Hank Vasarely. Hank, it seemed, was regularly arrested for
threatening behaviour and indecent exposure, all in the name of Jehovah. Appearances deceived: he was about as
dangerous as the Easter Bunny. T his was not the Subway Slaughterer. But by the time the co ps had wo rked that out,
Mahogany had been about his business a long while.
It was eleven-fifteen when Kaufman got on the Express through to Mott Avenue. He shared the car with two other

travellers. One was a middle-aged black woman in a purple coat, the other a pale, acne-ridden adolescent who was
staring at the "Kiss M y White Ass' graffiti on the ceiling with spaced -out eyes.
Kaufman was in the first car. He had a journey of thirty-five minutes' duration ahead of him. He let his eyes slide
closed, reassured by the rhythmical rocking of the train. It was a tedious journey and he was tired. He didn't see
Mahogany's face, either, staring through the d oor betwe en the cars, loo king thro ugh for some mo re meat.
At 14 th Street the blac k wom an got out. Nobo dy got in. Kau fman o pened his eyes briefly, taking in the emp ty
platform at 14th, then shut them again. The doors hissed closed. He was drifting in that warm somewhere between
awareness and slee p and there was a fluttering of nascent dre ams in his head . It was a go od feeling. T he train w as off
again, rattling down into the tunnels.
Maybe, at the back of his dozing mind, Kaufman half-registered that the doors between the second and first cars had
been slid open. Maybe he smelt the sudden gush of tunnel-air, and registered that the noise of wheels was
mom entarily louder. But he cho se to ignore it.
Maybe he even heard the scuffle as Mahogany subdued the youth with the spaced-out stare. But the sound was too
distant and the promise of sleep was too tempting. He drow sed on.
For some reason his dreams were of his mother's kitchen. She was chopping turnips and smiling sweetly as she
chopped. He was only small in his dream and was looking up at her radiant face while she worked. Chop. Chop.
Chop.
His eyes jerked open. His mother vanished. The car was empty and the youth was gone.
Ho w long had he bee n dozing? He hadn't remembered the train stopping at W est 4th S treet. H e got up, his head full
of slumber, and almost fell over as the train rocked violently. It seemed to have gathered quite a substantial head of
speed. M aybe the driver was keen to be ho me, wrapp ed up in bed with his wife. T hey were going at a fair lick ; in
fact it was bloody terrifying.
There was a blind drawn down over the window between the cars which hadn't been down before as he remembered.
A little concern crept into Kaufman's sober head. Suppose he'd been sleeping a long while, and the guard had
overlooked him in the car. Perhap s they'd passed F ar Ro ckaway and the train was now speeding on its way to
where ver they took the trains for the night.
"Fuck it," he said aloud.
Should he go forward and ask the driver? It was such a bloody idiot question to ask: where am I? At this time of
night was he likely to get mo re than a stream of abuse by way of re ply?
Then the train began to slow.
A station. Ye s, a station. The train em erged from the tunnel and into the dirty light of the station at W est 4th S treet.
He'd missed no stops...
So where had the boy gone?
He'd either igno red the warning on the car wall forbidding tra nsfer between the cars while in tra nsit, or else he'd
gone into the driver's cabin up front. Probab ly between the driver's legs even now, Kaufman thought, his lip curling.
It wasn't unheard of. This was the Palace of Delights, after all, and everyone had their right to a little love in the
dark.
Kaufman shrugged to himself. What did he care where the boy had gone?
The doors closed. Nobody had boarded the train. It shunted off from the station, the lights flickering as it used a
surge of power to pick up some speed again.
Kaufman felt the desire for sleep co me o ver him afresh, b ut the sud den fear of b eing lost had p ump ed ad renalin into
his system, and his limbs were tingling with nervous energy.
His senses were sharpened too.
Even over the clatter and the rumble of the wheels on the tracks, he heard the sound of tearing cloth coming from the
next car. W as som eone tearing their shirt o ff?
He stood up, grasping one of the straps for balance.
The window b etween the cars was completely curtained off, but he stared at it, frowning, as though he might
suddenly discover X-ray vision. The car rocked and rolled. It was really travelling again.
Another ripping sound.
W as it rape?
W ith no more than a mild voyeuristic urge he moved down the see-sawing car towards the intersecting door, hoping
there might be a chink in the curtain. His eyes were still fixed on the window, and he failed to notice the splatters of
bloo d he w as tread ing in. Until - his heel slipped. He looked down. His stomach almost saw the blood before his brain and the ham on whole-wheat
was half-way up his gullet catching in the back of his throat. Blood. He took several large gulps of stale air and
looked away - back at the window.

His he ad was saying: bloo d. Nothing would make the word go away.
There was no more than a yard or two between him and the door now. He had to look. There was blood on his shoe,
and a thin trail to the next car, but he still had to look.
He had to.
He took two mo re steps to the door and scanned the curtain looking for a flaw in the blind: a pulled thread in the
weave would be sufficient. T here w as a tiny ho le. He glued his eye to it.
His mind refused to accept what his eyes were seeing beyond the door. It rejected the spectacle as prep osterous, as a
dreamed sight. His reason said it co uldn't be real, but his flesh knew it was. H is bod y beca me rigid with terror. H is
eyes, unblinking, could not close off the appa lling scene throu gh the curtain. H e stayed at the do or while the train
rattled on, while his blood drained from his extremities, and his brain reeled from lack of oxygen. Bright spots of
light flashed in front of his vision, b lotting out the atro city.
Then he fainted.
He was unconscious when the train reached Jay Street. He was deaf to the driver's announcement that all travellers
beyond that station would have to change trains. Had he heard this he would have questioned the sense of it. No
trains disgorged all their passengers at Jay Street; the line ran to M ott Avenue, via the Aqued uct Race Track, past
JFK Airport. He would have asked what kind of train this could be. Except that he already knew. The truth was
hanging in the next car. It was smiling contentedly to itself from behind a bloody chain-mail apron.
This was the Midnight Meat T rain.
There's no accou nting for tim e in a dead faint. It could have been seco nds or hours that passed before Kaufman's
eyes flickered open again, and his mind focussed on his new-found situation.
He lay under one of the se ats now , sprawled alo ng the vibrating wall of the car, hidden from view. Fate was with
him so far he tho ught: somehow the rocking of the car must have jockeyed his unco nscious bo dy out of sight.
He thought of the horror in Car Two, and swallowed back vomit. He was alone. Wherever the guard was (murdered
perhaps), there was no way he could call for help. And the driver? Was he dead at his controls? Was the train even
now hurtling through an unknown tunnel, a tunnel without a single station to identify it, towards its destruction?
And if there was no crash to be killed in, there was always the Butcher, still hacking away a door's thickness from
where Kaufman lay.
W hichever way he turned, the name on the door was Death.
The noise was deafening, especially lying on the floor. Kaufman's teeth were shaking in their sockets and his face
felt numb with the vibration; even his skull was aching.
Gra dually he felt strength seep ing back into his exhausted limbs. H e cautiously stretched his fingers and clenched his
fists, to set the blood flowing there again.
And as the feeling returned, so did the nausea. He kept seeing the grisly brutality of the next car. He'd seen
photographs of murder victims before, of course, but these were no common murders. He was in the same train as
the Subway Butcher, the monster who strung his victims up by the feet from the straps, hairless and naked.
How long wo uld it be before the killer stepped through that door and claimed him? H e was sure that if the
slaughterer didn't finish him, expectation would.
He heard mo vement beyond the door.
Instinct took over. Kaufman thrust himself further under the seat and tucked himself up into a tiny ball, with his sickwhite face to the wall. Then he covered his head with his hands and closed his eyes as tightly as any child in terror of
the Bogeyman.
The door was slid open. Click. Whoosh. A rush of air up from the rails. It smelt stranger than any Kaufman had
smelt before: and colder. This was somehow p rimal air in his nostrils, hostile and unfathomable air. It made him
shudder.
The do or closed. Click.
The Butcher was clo se, Kaufma n knew it. He co uld be stand ing no more than a matter o f inches fro m where he lay.
W as he even no w looking down at Kaufman's back? Even now bend ing, knife in hand, to scoop K aufma n out o f his
hiding place, like a snail hook ed fro m its shell?
Nothing happened. H e felt no breath on his neck. His spine was not slit open.
There was simply a clatter of feet close to Kaufman's head; then that same sound receding.
Kaufman's breath, held in his lungs 'til they hurt, was expelled in a rasp between his teeth.
Maho gany was almost disappointed that the sleeping man had alighted at West 4th Street. He was hoping for one
more job to do that night, to keep him occupied while they descended. But no: the man had gone. The potential
victim ha dn't look ed that healthy an yway, he thought to himself, he was an anaemic Jewish accountant probab ly.

The mea t wouldn't have been of any quality. Mahogany walked the length of the car to the driver's cabin. He'd spend
the rest of the journey there.
My Christ, thought Kaufman, he's going to kill the driver.
He heard the cabin door open. Then the voice of the Butcher: low and hoarse.
"H i."
"H i."
They knew each other.
"All done?"
"All done ."
Kaufman was shocked by the banality of the exchange. All done? What did that mean: all done?
He missed the next few words as the train hit a particularly noisy section of track.
Kaufman could resist looking no longer. W arily he uncurled himself and glanced over his shoulder d own the length
of the car. All he could see was the Butcher's legs, and the bottom of the open cabin door. Damn. He wanted to see
the monster's face again.
There was laughter now.
Kaufman calculated the risks of his situation: the mathematics of panic. If he remained where he was, sooner or later
the B utcher would glance dow n at him, and he'd be mincem eat. On the other hand, if he were to move from his
hiding place he would risk being seen and pursued. W hich was worse: stasis, and meeting his death trapped in a
hole; or making a break for it and confronting his Make r in the middle of the car?
Kaufman surprised himself with his mettle: he'd move.
Infinitesimally slowly he crawled out from under the seat, watching the Butcher's back every minute as he did so.
Once out, he began to crawl towards the door. Each step he took was a torment, but the Butcher seemed far too
engrossed in his conversation to turn round.
Kaufman had reached the doo r. He bega n to stand up, trying all the while to prepare himself for the sight he would
meet in Car Two. T he handle was grasped; and he slid the door open.
The noise of the rails increased, and a wave of dank air, stinking of nothing on earth, came up at him. Surely the
Butcher must hear, or smell? Surely he must turn -But no. Kaufman skinned his way through the slit he had opened
and so through into the bloody chamber beyond.
Relief made him careless. He failed to latch the door prop erly behind him and it began to slide open with the
buffeting of the train.
Maho gany put his head out of the cabin and stared down the car towards the door.
"W hat the fuck's that?" said the driver.
"D idn't close the do or properly. That's all."
Kaufman heard the Butcher walking towards the door. He crouched, a ball of consternation, against the intersecting
wall, suddenly aware of how full his bowels were. The door was pulled closed from the other side, and the footsteps
receded again.
Safe, for another breath at least.
Kaufman opened his eyes, steeling himself for the slaughter-pen in front of him.
There wa s no av oiding it.
It filled every one of his senses: the smell of opened entrails, the sight of the bodies, the feel of fluid on the floor
unde r his fingers, the sound of the straps creaking beneath the weight of the corp ses, even the air, tasting salty with
blood. He was with death absolutely in that cubby-hole, hurtling through the dark.
But there was no nausea now. There was no feeling left but a casual revulsion. He even found himself peering at the
bod ies with some curiosity.
The carcass closest to him was the remains of the pimply youth he'd seen in Car One. The b ody hung upside-down,
swinging back and forth to the rhythm of the train, in unison with its three fellows; an obscene dance macabre.
Its arms dangled loosely from the shoulder joints, into which gashes an inch or two deep had been made, so the
bod ies would hang mo re neatly.
Every part of the dead kid's anatomy was swaying hypnotically. The tongue, hanging from the open mouth. The
head, lolling on its slit neck. Even the youth's penis flapped from side to side on his plucked groin. The head wound
and the open jugular still pulsed blood into a black bucket. There was an elegance about the whole sight: the sign of
a job well-done.
Beyond that body were the strung-up corpses of two young white women and a darker skinned male. Kaufman

turned his head on one side to look at their faces. They were quite blank. One of the girls was a beauty. He decided
the male had been Puerto Rican. All were shorn of their head and bod y hair. In fact the air was still pungent with the
smell of the shearing. Kaufman slid up the wall o ut of the crouching po sition, and as he did so one of the wom en's
bodies turned around, presenting a dorsal view.
He was not prepared for this last horror.
The meat of her back had b een entirely cleft open from neck to buttoc k and the muscle had been pe eled b ack to
expose the glistening vertebrae. It was the final triumph of the Butcher's craft. Here they hung, these shaved, bled,
slit slabs of humanity, opened up like fish, and ripe for devouring.
Kaufman almost smiled at the pe rfection of its horror. H e felt an offer of insanity tickling the b ase of his skull,
tempting him into oblivion, promising a blank indifference to the world.
He bega n to shake, uncontro llably. He felt his vocal cords trying to form a screa m. It was intolerable: and yet to
scream was to become in a short while like the creatures in front of him.
"Fuck it," he said, more loudly than he'd intended, then pushing himself off from the wall he began to walk down the
car between the swa ying corpses, obse rving the neat piles of clothes and belongings that sat on the seats b eside their
owners. Under his feet the floor was sticky with drying bile. Even with his eyes closed to cracks he could see the
bloo d in the b uckets too clearly: it was thick and head y, flecks of grit turning in it.
He was past the youth now and he could see the door into Car Three ahead. All he had to do was run this gauntlet of
atrocities. He urged himself on, trying to ignore the horrors, and concentrate on the door that would lead him back
into sanity.
He was past the first wo man. A few m ore yards, he said to himself, ten steps at most, less if he walke d with
confidence.
Then the lights went out.
"Jesus Christ," he said.
The train lurched, and Kaufman lost his balance.
In the utter blackness he reached out for support and his flailing arms encompassed the bod y beside him. Before he
could prevent himself he felt his hands sinking into the lukewarm flesh, and his fingers grasping the open edge of
muscle on the dead wom an's back, his fingertip s touching the bone of her sp ine. His cheek was laid against the ba ld
flesh of the thigh.
He screamed; and even as he screamed , the lights flickered back on.
And as they flickered back on, and his scream died, he heard the noise of the Butcher's feet approaching down the
length of Car One towards the intervening door.
He let go of the body he w as embracing. His face wa s smeared with bloo d from her leg. H e cou ld feel it on his
cheek, like war paint.
The scream had cleared Kaufman's head and he suddenly felt released into a kind of strength. There would be no
pursuit down the train, he knew that: there would be no cowardice, not now. This was going to be a primitive
confrontatio n, two human beings, face to face. And there would be no trick - none - that he co uldn't contemp late
using to bring his enemy down. This was a matter of survival, pure and simple.
The door-handle rattled.
Kaufman looked aro und for a weapon, his eye steady and calculating. His gaze fell on the pile of clothes beside the
Pue rto Rican's bo dy. T here w as a knife there, lying amo ngst the rhinestone rings and the imitation gold chains. A
long-b laded , immaculately clean we apo n, pro bab ly the man's pride and joy. Re aching past the well-muscled bod y,
Kaufman plucked the knife from the heap. It felt good in his hand; in fact it felt positively thrilling.
The door was opening, and the face of the slaughterer came into view.
Kaufman looked d own the abattoir at Mahogany. He was not terribly fearsome, just another balding, overweight
man of fifty. His face was heavy and his eyes deep-set. His mouth was rather small and delicately lipped. In fact he
had a woman's mouth.
Mahogany could not understand where this intruder had appeared from, but he was aware that it was another
oversight, ano ther sign o f increasing inco mpe tence. He m ust dispatch this ragged creature imm ediately. After all
they could no t be more tha n a mile or two from the end of the line. H e must cut the little ma n down and have him
hanging up by his heels before they reached their destination.
He moved into Car Two.
"Y ou were aslee p," he said, re cognizing K aufma n. "I saw you."
Kaufman said nothing.
"You should have left the train. What were you trying to do? Hide from me?"
Kaufman still kept his silence.
Mahogany grasped the hand of the cleaver hanging from his well-used leather belt. It was dirty with blood, as was

his chain-mail apron, his hammer and his saw.
"As it is," he said, "I'll have to do away with you." Kaufman raised the knife. It looked a little small beside the
Butcher's paraphernalia.
"Fuck it," he said.
Mahogany grinned at the little man's pretensions to defence.
"Y ou shou ldn't have seen this: it's not for the likes of you," he said, taking another step tow ards Kaufman. "It's
secret."
Oh, so he's the divinely-inspired type is he? thought Kaufman. That explains something.
"Fuck it," he said again.
The B utcher frowned. He didn't like the little man's indifference to his work, to his reputation.
"We all have to die some time," he said. "You should be well pleased: you're not going to be burnt up like most of
them: I can use you. T o feed the fathers."
Kaufman's only response was a grin. He was past being terrorized by this gross, shambling hulk.
The Butcher unhooked the cleaver from his belt and brandished it.
"A dirty little Jew like you," he said, "should be thankful to be useful at all: meat's the best you can aspire to."
W ithout warning, the Butcher swung. The cleaver divided the air at some speed, but Kaufman stepped back. T he
cleaver sliced his coat-arm and buried itself in the Puerto Rican's shank. The impact half-severed the leg and the
weight of the body opened the gash even further. The exposed meat of the thigh was like prime steak, succulent and
appetizing.
The Butcher started to drag the cleaver out of the wound, and in that moment Kaufman sprang. The knife sped
towards Maho gany's eye, but an error of judgement buried it instead in his neck. It transfixed the column and
appeared in a little gout of gore on the other side. Straight through. In one stroke. Straight through.
Mahogany felt the blade in his neck as a choking sensation, almost as though he had cau ght a chicken b one in his
throat. He made a ridiculous, half-hearted coughing sound. Blood issued from his lips, painting them, like lipstick on
his woman's mouth. The cleaver clattered to the floor.
Kaufman pulled out the knife. The two wounds spouted little arcs of blood.
Mahogany co llapsed to his kne es, staring at the knife that had killed him . The little man was watching him quite
passively. He was saying something, but Maho gany's ears were deaf to the remarks, as though he was under water.
Mahogany sudde nly went b lind. H e knew with a no stalgia for his senses that he would not see or hear again. This
was death: it was on him for certain.
His hands still felt the weave of his trousers, however, and the hot splashes on his skin. His life seemed to totter on
its tiptoes while his fingers grasped at one last sense.
Then his body collapsed, and his hands, and his life, and his sacred duty folded up under a weight of grey flesh.
The Butcher was dead.
Kaufman dragged gulps of stale air into his lungs and grabbed one o f the straps to steady his reeling body. Tears
blotted out the sh amb les he stood in. A time passed: he d idn't know how lo ng; he was lost in a dream of victory.
Then the train began to slow. He felt and heard the brakes being applied. The hanging bodies lurched forward as the
careering train slowed, its wheels squealing on rails that were sweating slime.
Curiosity overtook Ka ufman.
W ould the train shunt into the Butcher's underground slaughterhouse, decorated with the meats he had gathered
through his career? And the laughing driver, so indifferent to the massacre, what would he do once the train had
stopped? Whatever happened now was academic. He could face anything at all; watch and see.
The tannoy crackled. The voice of the driver:
"We're here man. Better take your place eh?"
Take your place? W hat did that mean?
The train had slowed to a snail's pace. Outside the windows, everything was as dark as ever. The lights flickered,
then went out. This time they didn't come back
on.
Kaufm an was left in total darkness.
"W e'll be out in half-an-ho ur," the tannoy announced, so like any station report.
The train had come to a stop. The sound of its wheels on the tracks, the rush of its passage, which Kaufman had
grown so used to, were suddenly absent. All he could hear was the hum of the tannoy. He could still see nothing at
all.
Then, a hiss. The doors were opening. A smell entered the car, a smell so caustic that Kaufman clapped his hand

over his face to shut it out.
He stood in silence, hand to mo uth, for what seemed a lifetime. See no evil. He ar no evil. Speak no evil.
Then, there was a flicker of light outside the window. It threw the door frame into silhouette, and it grew stronger by
degrees. Soon there was sufficient light in the car for K aufma n to see the crum pled bod y of the B utcher at his feet,
and the sallow sides of meat hanging on every side of him.
There was a whisper too, from the dark outside the train, a gathering of tiny noises like the voices of beetles. In the
tunnel, shuffling towards the train, were human beings. Kaufman could see their outlines now. Some of them carried
torches, which burned with a de ad brown light. The noise was perhap s their feet o n the damp earth, or perhaps the ir
tongues clicking, or both.
Kaufman wasn't as naive as he'd been an hour before. Could there be any doubt as to the intention these things had,
coming o ut of the blackness towards the train? T he Butcher had slaughtered the men and wo men as m eat for these
cannibals, they were coming, like diners at the dinner-gong, to eat in this restaurant car.
Kaufman bent down and picked up the cleaver the Butcher had dropped. The noise of the creatures' approach was
louder every moment. He b acked do wn the car awa y from the open do ors, only to find that the doors behind him
were also open, and there was the whisper of approach there too.
He shrank back against one of the seats, and was about to take refuge under them when a hand, thin and frail to the
point of transparency appeared around the door.
He could not look away. No t that terror froze him as it had at the window. He simply wanted to watch.
The crea ture step ped into the car. The torc hes behind it threw its face into shadow , but its outline cou ld be clearly
seen.
There wa s nothing very remarkable about it.
It had two arms and two legs as he did; its head was not abnormally shaped. The body was small, and the effort of
climbing into the train made its breath coarse. It seemed more geriatric than psychotic; generations of fictional maneaters had no t prep ared him for its distressing vulnera bility.
Behind it, similar creatures we re appearing out of the darkness, shuffling into the train. In fact they we re coming in
at every door.
Kaufm an was trapp ed. He weighed the cleaver in his hands, getting the balance of it, ready for the battle with these
antique mo nsters. A torch had been brought into the car, and it illuminated the face s of the leaders.
They were com pletely b ald. T he tired flesh of their faces was pulled tight over their skulls, so tha t it shone w ith
tension. The re were stains of dec ay and disease on their skin, and in places the muscle had withered to a black pus,
through which the bone of cheek or temple was showing. Som e of them were naked as babies, their pulpy, syphilitic
bod ies scarcely sexed. W hat had been breasts were leathery bags hanging off the torso, the genitalia sh runken away.
W orse sights than the naked amongst them were those who wore a veil of clothes. It soon dawned on Kaufman that
the rotting fabric slung around their shoulders, or knotted about their midriffs was made of human skins. Not one,
but a dozen or m ore, heap ed haphazardly on top of each other, like pathetic trophies.
The leaders of this grotesque meal-line had reached the bodies now, and the gracile hands were laid upon the shanks
of meat, and were running up and down the shaved flesh in a manner that suggested sensual pleasure. Tongues were
dancing out of mo uths, flecks of spittle landing o n the meat. T he eyes of the m onsters were flickering b ack and forth
with hunger and exc itement.
Eventually one of them saw Kaufman.
Its eyes stopped flickering for a moment, and fixed on him. A look of enquiry came over the face, making a parody
of puzzlem ent.
"You," it said. The voice was as wasted as the lips it came from.
Kaufman raised the cleaver a little, calculating his chances. There were perhaps thirty of them in the car and many
more o utside. But they looked so we ak, and they had no weap ons, but their skin and b ones.
The monster spoke again, its voice quite well modulated, when it found itself, the piping of a once-cultured, oncecharming man.
"You came after the other, yes?"
It glance d do wn at the bod y of M ahogany. It had clearly taken in the situation very q uickly.
"Old anyway," it said, its watery eyes back on Kaufman, studying him with care.
"Fuck you," said Kaufman.
The creature attempted a wry smile, but it had almost forgotten the technique and the result was a grimace which
exposed a mo uthful of teeth that had been systematically filed into po ints.
"Yo u must now do this for us," it said through the bestial grin.

"W e cannot survive without foo d."
The hand p atted the rump of human flesh. Kaufman had no reply to the idea. He just stared in disgust as the
fingernails slid between the cleft in the buttocks, feeling the swell of tender muscle.
"It disgusts us no less than you," said the creature. "But we're bound to eat this meat, or we die. God knows, I have
no ap petite for it."
The thing was droo ling nevertheless.
Kaufman found his voice. It was small, more with a confusion of feelings than with fear.
"W hat are you?" He rememb ered the bearded ma n in the D eli.
"Are you accidents of some kind?"
"W e are the City fathe rs," the thing said. "And mo thers, and daughters and sons. T he builders, the law-makers. W e
mad e this city."
"N ew Y ork? " said Kaufman. The Palace o f Deligh ts? "B efore you we re bo rn, before anyone living was born." As it
spoke the creature 's fingernails we re running up under the skin o f the split bo dy, and were p eeling the thin elastic
layer off the luscious brawn. B ehind K aufman, the other creatures had b egun to unho ok the bo dies from the straps,
their hands laid in that same delighting manner on the smooth breasts and flanks of flesh. These too had begun
skinning the meat.
"Y ou will bring us m ore," the father said. "More m eat for us. The other one was weak."
Kaufman stared in disbe lief.
"Me?" he said. "Feed you? What do you think I am?"
"You must do it for us, and for those older than us. For those born before the city was thought of, when America was
a timberland and d esert."
The fragile hand gestured out of the train.
Kaufman's gaze followed the po inting finger into the gloom . T here was som ething else outside the train which he'd
failed to see before; much bigger than anything human.
The pack of creatures parted to let Kaufman through so that he could inspect more closely whatever it was that stood
outside, but his feet would not move.
"Go on," said the father.
Kaufman thought of the city he'd loved. W ere these really its ancients, its philosophers, its creato rs? H e had to
believe it. Perhaps there were people on the surface -bureaucrats, politicians, authorities of every kind - who knew
this horrible secret and whose lives were dedicated to preserving these abominations, feeding them, as savages feed
lambs to their gods. There was a horrible familiarity about this ritual. It rang a bell - not in Kaufman's conscious
mind, but in his d eeper, older self.
His feet, no longer obeying his mind, but his instinct to worship, moved. He walked through the corridor of bodies
and stepped out of the train.
The light of the torches scarcely began to illuminate the limitless darkness outside. T he air seemed solid, it was so
thick with the smell of ancient earth. But Kaufman smelt nothing. His head bowed, it was all he could do to prevent
himself from fainting again.
It was there; the precursor of man. The original American, whose homeland this was before Passamaquoddy or
Cheyenne. Its eyes, if it had eyes, were on him.
His body shook. His teeth chattered.
He could hear the noise of its anatomy: ticking, crackling, sobbing.
It shifted a little in the dark.
The sound of its movement was awesome. Like a mountain sitting up.
Kaufman's face was ra ised to it, and witho ut thinking about what he was d oing o r why, he fell to his knees in the shit
in front of the Father of Fathers.
Every day o f his life had b een lea ding to this day, ev ery mo ment quickening to this incalcu lable m ome nt of holy
terror.
Had there been sufficient light in tha t pit to see the who le, perh aps his tepid heart would have b urst. As it wa s he felt
it flutter in his chest as he saw what he saw.
It was a giant. Without head or limb. Without a feature that was analogous to human, without an organ that made
sense, or senses. If it was like anything, it was like a shoal of fish. A thousand snouts all moving in unison, budding,
blossoming and withering rhythmically. It was iridescent, like mother of pearl, but it was sometimes deeper than any
colour Kaufman knew, or could put a name to.
That was all Kaufman could see , and it was more than he wanted to see. The re was much more in the d arkness,
flickering and flapping.
But he could look no longer. He turned away, and as he did so a football was pitched out of the train and rolled to a

halt in front of the Father.
At least he thought it was a football, until he peered more attentively at it, and recognized it as a human head, the
head of the B utcher. The skin of the face had been p eeled off in strips. It glistened with blood as it lay in front of its
Lord.
Kaufm an looked away, and walked back to the train. Every p art of his body seem ed to be weeping b ut his eyes.
They were too ho t with the sight behind him, they bo iled his tea rs away.
Inside, the crea tures had already set about their sup per. O ne, he sa w, was p lucking the blue sweet m orsel o f a
woma n's eye out of the socket. Ano ther had a hand in its mouth. At K aufman's feet lay the Butcher's headless
corpse, still bleeding profusely from where its neck had been bitten through.
The little father who had spoken earlier stood in front of Kaufman.
"Serve us?" it asked, gently, as you might ask a cow to follow you.
Kaufman was staring at the cleaver, the Butcher's symbol of office. The creatures were leaving the car now,
dragging the half-eaten bodies after them. As the torches were taken out of the car, darkness was returning.
But before the lights had completely disappeared the father reached out and took hold of K aufman's face, thrusting
him round to look at himself in the filthy glass of the car window.
It was a thin reflection, but Kaufman could see quite well enough how changed he was. Whiter than any living man
should be, covered in grime and blood.
The father's hand still gripped Kaufman's face, and its forefinger hoo ked into his mouth and down his gullet, the nail
scoring the back of his throat. Kaufman gagged on the intruder, but had no will left to repel the attack.
"Serve," said the creature. "In silence."
To o late, Kaufm an realized the intention o f the fingers.
Suddenly his tongue was se ized tigh t and twisted on the root. Kaufma n, in shock, dropp ed the cleave r. He tried to
scream, but no sound came. Blood was in his throat, he heard his flesh tearing, and agonies convulsed him.
Then the hand was out of his mouth and the scarlet, spittle-covered fingers were in front of his face, with his tongue,
held between thumb and forefinger.
Kaufm an was spee chless.
"Serve," said the father, and stuffed the tongue into his own mouth, chewing on it with evident satisfaction. Kaufman
fell to his knees, spewing up his sandwich.
The father was already shuffling away into the dark; the rest of the ancients had disappeared into their warren for
another night.
The tannoy crackled.
"Ho me," said the driver.
The do ors hissed closed and the sound of power surged through the train. The lights flickered on, then off again,
then on.
The train began to move.
Kaufman lay on the floor, tears pouring down his face, tea rs of disc omfiture and of resignation. H e would bleed to
death, he de cided , where he lay. It wo uldn't matter if he died. It was a foul wo rld anyw ay.
The driver woke him. He o pened his eyes. The face that was looking down at him was black, and not unfriendly. It
grinned. Kaufman tried to say something, but his mouth was sealed up with dried blood. He jerked his head around
like a driveller trying to spit out a word. N othing came but grunts.
He wasn't dead. He hadn't bled to death.
The driver pulled him to his knees, talking to him as though he were a three-year-old.
"Y ou go t a job to do , my man: they're very please d with yo u."
The driver had licked his fingers, and was rubbing Kaufman's swollen lips, trying to part them.
"Lo ts to learn before tom orro w night. . ."
Lots to learn. Lots to learn.
He led K aufma n out o f the train. T hey were in no station he had ever see n befo re. It was w hite-tiled an d absolutely
pristine; a station-keeper's Nirvana. No graffiti disfigured the walls. There were no token-boo ths, but then there were
no gates and no passengers either. This was a line that provided only one service: The Meat T rain.
A morning shift of cleaners were already busy hosing the blood off the seats and the floor of the train. Somebody
was stripping the Butcher's body, in preparation for dispatch to New Jersey. All around Kaufman people were at
work.
A rain of dawn light was pouring thro ugh a grating in the roof of the station. Motes o f dust hung in the beam s,
turning over and over. Kaufman watched them, entranced. He hadn't seen such a beautiful thing since he was a child.

Lovely dust. Over and over, and over and over.
The driver had managed to separate Kaufman's lips. His mouth was too wounded for him to move it, but at least he
could breathe easily. And the pain was already beginning to subside.
The driver smiled at him, then turned to the rest of the workers in the station.
"I'd like to introduce Mahogany's replacement. Our new butcher," he announced.
The workers looked at K aufman. There was a certain deference in their faces, which he found appealing.
Kaufman looked up at the sunlight, now falling all around him. He jerked his head, signifying that he wanted to go
up, into the open air. The driver nodde d, and led him up a steep flight of steps and through an alley-way and so out
on to the sidewalk.
It was a b eautiful day. The bright sky ov er New Y ork was streaked with filaments of pa le pink cloud , and the air
smelt of morning.
The Streets and Avenues were practically empty. At a distance an occasional cab crossed an intersection, its engine a
whisper; a runner swe ated p ast on the other side o f the street.
Very soon these same deserted sid ewalks would be thronged with peo ple. T he city wo uld go about its business in
ignorance: never know ing what it was built up on, or what it owed its life to. W ithout hesitation, K aufma n fell to his
knees and kissed the dirty concrete with his bloody lips, silently swearing his eternal loyalty to its continuance.
The Palace of Deligh ts received the adoration w ithout co mment.

THE YATT ERING AND JACK
W HY TH E P OW ER S (long may they hold court; long may they shit light on the heads of the damned) had sent it
out from Hell to stalk Jack Polo, the Yattering couldn't discover. Whenever he passed a tentative enquiry along the
system to his master, just asking the simple question, "What am I doing here?" it was answered with a swift rebuke
for its curiosity. None of its business, came the reply, its business was to do. Or die trying. And after six months of
pursuing Polo, the Yattering was beginning to see extinction as an easy option. This endless game of hide and seek
was to nob ody's benefit, and to the Y attering's immense frustration. It feared ulcers, it feared psycho somatic lepro sy
(a condition lower demons like itself were susceptible to), worst of all it feared losing its temper completely and
killing the man outright in an uncontrollable fit of pique.
W hat was Jack Polo anyway?
A ghe rkin imp orter; b y the balls of Leviticus, he was simp ly a gherk in importer. H is life was wo rn out, his family
was dull, his p olitics were sim ple-mind ed and his theology non-existe nt. T he ma n was a no-acco unt, o ne of nature's
blankest little numbers - why bother with the likes of him? This wasn't a Faust: a pact-maker, a soul-seller. This one
wouldn't look twice at the chance of divine inspiration: he'd sniff, shrug and get on with his gherkin importing.
Yet the Yattering was bound to that house, long night and longer day, until he had the man a lunatic, or as good as. It
was going to be a lengthy job, if not interminable. Yes, there were times when even psychosomatic leprosy would be
bearable if it meant being invalided off this impossible mission.
For his part, Jack J. Polo continued to be the mo st unkno wing of men. H e had always b een that way; inde ed his
history was littered with the victims of his navet. W hen his late, lamented wife had cheated on him (he'd bee n in
the house on at least two of the occasions, watching the television) he was the last one to find out. And the clues
they'd left behind them! A blind, deaf and dumb man wo uld have become suspicious. Not Jack. He po ttered about
his dull business and never no ticed the tang of the adu lterer's colo gne, no r the ab norm al regularity with which his
wife changed the bed-linen.
He was no less disinterested in events when his younger daughter Am anda con fessed her lesb ianism to him. H is
response was a sigh and a puzzled look.
"W ell, as long as you don't get pregnant, darling," he replied, and sauntered off into the garden, blithe as ever.
W hat chance d id a fury ha ve with a man like that?
To a creature trained to put its meddling fingers into the wounds o f the human psyche, Polo o ffered a surface so
glacial, so utterly without distinguishing marks, as to deny malice any hold whatsoever.
Events seem ed to make no dent in his perfect ind ifference . His life's disasters seemed not to sc ar his mind at all.
W hen, eventually, he was confronted with the truth about his wife's infidelity (he found them screwing in the bath)
he couldn't bring himself to be hurt or humiliated.
"These things happen," he said to himself, backing out of the bathroom to let them finish what they'd started.
"Che sera , sera."
Che sera, sera. The man muttered that damn phrase with monotonous regularity. He seemed to live by that
philosophy of fatalism, letting attacks on his manhood, ambition and dignity slide off his ego like rain-water from

his bald head.
The Y attering had heard Po lo's wife confess all to her husband (it was hanging upside down from the light-fitting,
invisible as ever) and the scene had made it wince. There was the distraught sinner, begging to be accused, bawled
at, struck even, and instead of giving her the satisfaction of his hatred, Polo had just shrugged and let her say her
piece without a word of interruption, until she had no more to embosom. She'd left, at length, more out of frustration
and sorrow than guilt; the Y attering had heard her te ll the bathroom mirror how insulted she was at her husband's
lack of righteous anger. A little while after she'd flung herself off the balcony of the Roxy Cinema.
Her suicide was in so me ways convenient for the fury. W ith the wife go ne, and the daughters away fro m home, it
could plan for more elaborate tricks to unnerve its victim, without ever having to concern itself with revealing its
presence to creatures the powers had not marked for attack.
But the absence of the wife left the house empty during the days, and that soon became a burden of boredo m the
Yattering found scarcely supportable. The hours from nine to five, alone in the house, often seemed endless. It
would mope and wander, planning bizarre and impractical revenges upon the Polo-man, pacing the rooms, heartsick,
companioned only by the clicks and whirrs of the house as the radiators cooled, or the refrigerator switched itself on
and off. The situation rapidly became so desperate that the arrival of the midday post became the high-point of the
day, and an unshakeable melancholy would settle on the Yattering if the postman had nothing to deliver and passed
by to the next house.
When Jack returned the games would begin in earnest. The usual warm-up routine: it would meet Jack at the door
and prevent his key from turning in the lock. T he co ntest would go on for a minute or two until Jack accidentally
found the measure of the Yattering's resistance, and won the day. Once inside, it would start all the lampshades
swinging. The man wo uld usually ignore this performance, however violent the motion. Perhaps he might shrug and
murm ur: "Subsidence," und er his breath, then, inevitab ly, "Che sera, sera."
In the bathroom, the Yattering would have squeezed toothpaste around the toilet-seat and have plugged up the
shower-head with soggy toilet-paper. It would even share the shower with Jack, hanging unseen from the rail that
held up the shower curtain and murmuring obscene suggestions in his ear. That was always successful, the demons
were taught at the Academy. T he obscenities in the ear routine never failed to distress clients, making them think
they were conceiving of these pernicious acts themselves, and driving them to self-disgust, then to self-rejection and
finally to m ad ness. Of cou rse, in a few cases the victim s would be so inflame d b y these whispered suggestio ns they'd
go out on the streets and act upon them. Under such circumstances the victim would often be arrested and
incarcerated. Prison would lead to further crimes, and a slow dwindling of moral reserves - and the victory was won
by that ro ute. One way or another insanity wo uld out.
Except that for som e reason this rule did not ap ply to P olo; he was imperturbab le: a tower of propriety.
Indeed, the way things were going the Yattering would be the one to break. It was tired ; so very tired. Endless days
of torm enting the cat, reading the funnies in yesterday's newspa per, watching the gam e shows: they drained the fury.
Lately, it had developed a passion for the woman who lived across the street from Polo. She was a young widow;
and seemed to spend mo st of her life p arading aro und the house stark naked . It was alm ost unb earab le som etimes, in
the middle of a day when the postman failed to call, watching the woman and knowing it could never cross the
threshold of Polo's house.
This was the Law. The Yattering was a minor demon, and his soul-catching was strictly confined to the perimeters
of his victim's house. To step outside was to relinquish all powers over the victim: to put itself at the mercy of
huma nity.
All June, all July and mo st of August it sweated in its prison, and all through those b right, hot months Jack Po lo
maintained co mplete indifference to the Yattering's attacks.
It was deeply embarrassing, and it was grad ually destroying the dem on's self-confidence, seeing this bland victim
survive every trial and trick attempted upon him.
The Yattering wept.
The Yattering screamed.
In a fit of uncontrollable anguish, it boiled the water in the aquarium, poac hing the guppies.
Polo heard nothing. Saw nothing.
At last, in late Septemb er, the Y attering b roke one o f the first rules of its condition, and appealed directly to its
masters.
Autum n is He ll's season; an d the d emo ns of the higher d ominations were feeling benign. T hey condescend ed to
speak to their creature.

"W hat do you want?" asked Beelzebub, his voice blackening the air in the lounge.
"T his man . . ." the Y attering b egan nervo usly.
"Yes?"
"T his Po lo. . ."
"Yes?"
"I am without issue upon him. I can't get panic upon him, I can't breed fear or even mild concern upon him. I am
sterile, Lo rd of the Flies, and I wish to be put ou t of my misery."
For a moment Beelzebub's face formed in the mirror over the mantelpiece.
"You want what?"
Beelzebub was part elephant, part wasp. The Yattering was terrified.
"I - wan t to die."
"Y ou cannot d ie."
"From this world . Just die from this world . Fade away. Be replaced."
"Y ou will no t die."
"B ut I can't bre ak him!" the Y attering shrieked , tearful.
"Y ou must."
"Why?"
"Because we tell you to." Beelzebub always used the Royal "we", though unqualified to do so.
"Let me at lea st know why I'm in this ho use," the Yattering appe aled. " W hat is he? No thing! He's nothing!"
Beelzebub found this rich. He laughed, buzzed, trumpeted.
"Jack Jo hnson Po lo is the child of a worship per at the Church o f Lost Salvation. He belongs to us."
"B ut why sho uld you want him? He's so dull."
"W e want him because his soul was promised to us, and his mother did not deliver it. Or herself come to that. She
cheated us. S he died in the arms of a priest, and wa s safely escorted to -"
The word that fo llowed was anathem a. The Lo rd of the Flies could barely bring himself to p rono unce it.
"- Heaven," said Beelzebub, with infinite loss in his voice.
"Heaven," said the Yattering, not knowing quite what was meant by the word.
"Polo is to be hounded in the name of the Old One, and punished for his mother's crimes. No torment is too profound
for a fam ily that has cheated us."
"I'm tired," the Yattering pleaded, daring to approach the mirror.
"Please. I b eg you."
"Claim this man," sa id Beelzebub, "or yo u will suffer in his p lace."
The figure in the mirror waved its black and yellow trunk and faded.
"W here is yo ur prid e?" said the master's voice as it shrivelled into distance. "Pride, Ya ttering, pride."
Then he was gone.
In its frustration the Yattering picked up the cat and threw it into the fire, where it was rapidly cremated. If only the
law allowed such easy cruelty to be visited upon human flesh, it thought. If only. If only. Then it'd make Polo suffer
such torments. But no. T he Y attering knew the laws as well as the b ack o f its hand; the y had b een flayed on to its
exposed cortex as a fledgling demon by its teachers. And Law One stated: "Thou shalt not lay palm upon thy
victims."
It had never been told why this law pertained, but it did.
"T hou sh alt not . . ."
So the whole painful process continued. Day in, day out, and still the man showed no sign of yielding. Over the next
few weeks the Yattering killed two more cats that Polo brought home to replace his treasured Freddy (now ash).
The first of these poor victims was drowned in the toilet bowl one idle Friday afternoon. It was a pretty satisfaction
to see the look of distaste register on Polo's face as he unzipped his fly and glanced down. But any pleasure the
Yattering took in Jack's discomfiture was cancelled out by the blithely efficient way in which the man dealt with the
dead cat, hoisting the bundle of soaking fur out of the pan, wrapping it in a towel and burying it in the back garden
with scarcely a murmur.
The third cat that Polo brought home was wise to the invisible presence of the demon from the start. There was
indeed an entertaining week in mid-November when life for the Yattering became almost interesting while it played
cat and mouse with Freddy the Third. Freddy played the mouse. Cats not being especially bright animals the game
was scarcely a great intellectual challenge, but it made a change from the endless days of waiting, haunting and
failing. At least the creature accepted the Yattering's presence. Eventually, however, in a filthy mood (caused by the
re-marriage of the Yattering's naked widow) the demon lost its temper with the cat. It was sharpening its nails on the

nylon carpet, clawing and scratching at the pile for hours on end. The noise put the demon's metaphysical teeth on
edge. It looked at the cat once, briefly, and it flew apart as though it had swallowed a live grenade.
The effect was spectacular. The results were gross. Cat-brain, cat-fur, cat-gut everywhere.
Polo got home that evening exhausted, and stood in the doorway of the dining-room, his face sickened, surveying
the carnage that had been Freddy III.
"D amn dogs," he sa id. "D amn, damn dogs."
There was anger in his voice. Yes, exulted the Yattering, anger. The man was upset: there was clear evidence of
emotion on his face.
Elated, the demon raced through the house, determined to capitalize on its victory. It opened and slamm ed every
door. It smashed vases. It set the lampshades swinging.
Polo just cleaned up the cat.
The Yattering threw itself downstairs, tore up a pillow. Impersonated a thing with a limp and an appetite for human
flesh in the attic, and giggling.
Polo just buried Freddy III, beside the grave of Freddy II, and the ashes of Freddy I.
Then he retired to bed, without his pillow.
The demon was utterly stumped. If the man could not raise more than a flicker of concern when his cat was exploded
in the dining-room, what chance had it got of ever breaking the bastard?
There wa s one last opportunity left.
It was approaching Christ's Mass, and Jack's children would be coming home to the bosom of the family. Perhaps
they could co nvince him that all was not well with the world ; perha ps they could get their fingernails under his
flawless ind ifference , and b egin to break him d own. Hoping against ho pe, the Yattering sat o ut the weeks to late
Decemb er, planning its attacks with all the imaginative malice it could muster.
Mea nwhile, Jack's life sauntered on. He seemed to live apart from his experience, living his life as an author might
write a preposterous story, never involving himself in the narrative too deeply. In several significant ways, however,
he sho wed his enthusiasm for the co ming holiday. He cleared his daughters' roo ms imm aculately. He mad e their
beds up with sweet-smelling linen. He cleaned every speck of cat's blood out of the carpet. He even set up a
Christmas tree in the loung e, hung with iridescent balls, tinsel and pre sents.
Once in a while, as he went about the preparations, Jack thought of the game he was playing, and quietly calculated
the od ds against him. In the days to co me he would have to measure no t only his own suffering, but that of his
daughters, against the possible victory. And always, when he made these calculations, the chance of victory seemed
to outweigh the risks.
So he continued to write his life, and waited.
Snow came, soft pats of it against the windows, against the door. Children arrived to sing carols, and he was
generous to them. It was possible, for a brief time, to believe in peace on earth.
Late in the evening of the twenty-third of Decemb er the daughters arrived, in a flurry of cases and kisses. The
youngest, Amanda, arrived home first. From its vantage point on the landing the Yattering viewed the young woman
balefully. She didn't look like ideal material in which to induce a breakdown. In fact, she looked dangerous. Gina
followed an hour or two later; a smoothly-polished woman of the world at twenty-four, she looked every bit as
intimidating as her sister. They came into the house with their bustle and their laughter; they re-arranged the
furniture; they threw out the junk-food in the freezer, they told each other (and their father) how much they had
missed each other's company. W ithin the space of a few hours the drab house was repainted with light, and fun and
love.
It made the Yattering sick.
W himpering, it hid its head in the bedroom to block out the din of affection, b ut the sho ck-waves envelop ed it. All it
could do was sit, and listen, and refine its revenge.
Jack was pleased to have his beauties home. Amand a so full of opinions, and so strong, like her mother. Gina more
like his mother: poised, perceptive. He was so happy in their presence he could have wept; and here was he, the
proud father, putting them both at such risk. But what was the alternative? If he had cancelled the Christmas
celebrations, it would have looked highly suspicious. It might even have spoiled his whole strategy, waking the
enemy to the trick that was being played.
No; he must sit tight. Play dumb, the way the enemy had come to expect him to be.
The time would come for action.
At 3:15 a.m. on Christmas morning the Yattering opened hostilities by throwing Amanda out of bed. A paltry
performance at best, but it had the intended effect. Sleepily rubbing her bruised head, she climbed back into bed,
only to have the bed buck and sh ake and fling her off again like an unbroken colt.

The noise woke the rest of the house. Gina was first in her sister's room.
"What's going on?"
"T here's someb ody under the be d."
"What?"
Gina picked up a paperweight from the dresser and demanded the assailant come out. The Yattering, invisible, sat on
the window seat and made obscene gestures at the women, tying knots in its genitalia.
Gina peered under the bed. The Yattering was clinging to the light fixture now, persuading it to swing backwards
and forwards, making the roo m reel.
"T here's nothing there -"
"T here is."
Amanda knew. Oh yes, she knew.
"T here's something here, Gina," she sa id. "Some thing in the room with us, I'm sure o f it."
"N o." G ina was abso lute. "It's empty."
Amanda wa s searching behind the wardrobe when Polo came in.
"What's all the din?"
"T here's something in the ho use D add y. I was thro wn ou t of bed ."
Jack looked at the crumpled sheets, the dislodged mattress, then at Amanda. This was the first test: he must lie as
casually as possible.
"Looks like you've been having nightmares, beauty," he said, affecting an innocent smile.
"There was something under the bed," Amanda insisted.
"T here's nobod y here now."
"B ut I felt it."
"W ell, I'll check the rest of the house ," he o ffered, without enthusiasm for the task. "Y ou two stay here, just in case ."
As Polo left the room, the Yattering rocked the light a little more.
"Subsidence," said Gina.
It was cold downstairs, and Polo could have done without padding around barefoot on the kitchen tiles, but he was
quietly satisfied that the battle had been joined in such a petty manner. He'd half-feared that the enemy would turn
savage with such tender victims at hand. But no: he'd judged the mind of the creature quite accurately. It was one of
the lower ord ers. Powerful, but slow. Capab le of be ing inveigled b eyond the limits of its control. Carefully do es it,
he told himself, carefully does
it.
He traipsed through the entire ho use, du tifully open ing cup boa rds and peering b ehind the furniture, then re turned to
his daughters, who we re sitting at the top o f the stairs. Amanda looked small and pale, not the twe nty-two-yea r-old
woman she was, but a child again.
"N othing doing," he told her with a sm ile. "It's Christm as mo rning an d all thro ugh the house -"
Gina finished the rhyme.
"N othing is stirring; not even a mouse."
"N ot even a mo use, be auty."
At that moment the Yattering took its cue to fling a vase off the lounge mantelpiece.
Even Jack jumped.
"Shit," he said. He needed some sleep , but quite clearly the Yattering had no intention of letting them alone just yet.
"Che sera, sera," he murmured, scooping up the pieces of the Chinese vase, and putting them in a piece of
newsp aper. "T he house is sinking a little on the left side, yo u know," he said more lo udly. "It has been for years."
"Subside nce," said A manda with quiet certainty, "would not throw m e out o f my bed."
Gina said nothing. The options were limited. The alternatives unattractive.
"W ell, mayb e it was Santa C laus," sa id Polo, attempting levity.
He parcelled up the pieces of the vase and wandered through into the kitchen, certain that he was being shadowed
every step of the way. "W hat else can it be?" He threw the question over his shoulder as he stuffed the newspaper
into the waste bin. "The only other explanation-" here he became almost elated by his skimming so close to the truth,
'the only other po ssible ex plana tion is too prep ostero us for words."
It was an exquisite irony, denying the existence of the invisible world in the full kno wledge that even no w it
breathed vengefully down his neck.
"You mean poltergeists?" said Gina.
"I mean anything that goes b ang in the night. B ut, we're gro wn-up people aren't we? W e don't believe in

Bo geymen."
"N o," said Gina flatly, "I don't, but I don't believ e the ho use is sub siding either."
"W ell, it'll have to do for now," said Jac k with no nchalant finality. "C hristmas starts here. W e don't want to sp oil it
talking ab out gre mlins, no w do we."
They laughed together.
Gremlins. That surely bit deep. To call the Hell-spawn a gremlin.
The Yattering, weak with frustration, acid tears boiling on its intangible cheeks, ground its teeth and kept its peace.
There would be time yet to beat that atheistic smile off Jack Polo's smooth, fat face. Time aplenty. No half-measures
from now on. No subtlety. It would be an all out attack.
Let there be blood. Let there be agony. They'd all break.
Amanda wa s in the kitchen, preparing Christmas dinner, when the Yattering mounted its next attack. Through the
house drifted the sound of King's College Cho ir, "0 Little To wn of B ethlehem, how still we see thee lie. . ."
The presents had been op ened , the G and T 's were be ing do wned , the hou se was o ne warm em brace from roof to
cellar.
In the kitchen a sudden chill permeated the heat and the steam, making Amanda shiver; she crossed to the window,
which was ajar to clear the air, and closed it. Maybe she was catching something.
The Yattering watched her back as she busied herself about the kitchen, enjoying the domesticity for a day. Amanda
felt the stare quite clearly. She turned round. Nobo dy, nothing. She continued to wash the Brussels sprouts, cutting
into on e with a worm curled in the mid dle. Sh e dro wned it.
The Cho ir sang on.
In the lounge, Jack was laughing with Gina about something.
Then, a no ise. A rattling at first, followed by a bea ting of someb ody's fists against a do or. Amanda dropped the knife
into the bowl of sprouts, and turned from the sink, following the sound. It was getting louder all the time. Like
something locked in one of the cupboards, desperate to escape. A cat caught in the box, or a Bird.
It was coming from the oven.
Amanda's stomach turne d, as she bega n to ima gine the worst.
Had she locked som ething in the oven when she'd put in the turkey? She called for her father, as she snatched up the
oven cloth and steppe d towards the coo ker, which was rocking with the panic of its prisoner. Sh e had visions o f a
basted cat leaping out at her, its fur burned off, its flesh half-cooked.
Jack was at the kitchen door.
"T here's something in the oven," she said to him, as though he needed telling. T he co oker was in a frenzy; its
thrashing contents had all but beaten off the door.
He took the oven cloth from her. This is a new one, he thought. You're better than I judged you to be. This is clever.
This is original.
Gina was in the kitchen now.
"What's cooking?" she quipped.
But the joke was lo st as the co oker began to d ance, and the pans of bo iling water were twitched off the bu rners o n to
the floor. Scalding water seared Jack's leg. He yelled, stumbling back into Gina, before diving at the cooker with a
yell that wouldn't have sham ed a S amurai.
The oven hand le was slippery with heat and grease, but he seized it and flung the door down.
A wave of steam and blistering heat rolled out of the oven, smelling of succulent turkey-fat. But the bird inside had
apparently no intentions of being eaten. It was flinging itself from side to side on the roasting tray, tossing gouts of
gravy in all directions. Its crisp brown wings pitifully flailed and flapped, its legs beat a tattoo on the roof of the
oven.
Then it seem ed to sense the open do or. Its wings stretched themselves out to either sid e of its stuffed bulk and it half
hopped, half fell on to the oven door, in a mockery of its living self. Headless, oozing stuffing and onions, it flopped
around as though nobody had told the damn thing it was dead, while the fat still bubbled on its bacon-strewn back.
Amanda screamed.
Jack dived for the d oor as the bird lurched into the air, blind b ut vengeful. W hat it intend ed to do o nce it rea ched its
three cowering victim s was never discovered. Gina dragged Amanda into the hallway with her fathe r in hot p ursuit,
and the do or was slamm ed clo sed as the blind bird flung itself against the panelling, beating o n it with all its
strength. Gravy seep ed thro ugh the gap at the bo ttom o f the door, da rk and fatty.
The door had no lock, b ut Jack reaso ned that the bird was not capab le of turning the handle. A s he ba cked away,

breathless, he cursed his confidence. The opposition had more up its sleeve than he'd guessed.
Amanda was leaning against the wall sob bing, he r face stained with splotches of turkey gre ase. All she seem ed ab le
to do was deny what she'd seen, shaking her head and repeating the word "no" like a talisman against the ridiculous
horro r that was still throwing itself against the doo r. Jack escorted he r through to the lounge. The rad io was still
croo ning carols which blo tted out the din of the bird, but their pro mises o f goodwill seemed small co mfort.
Gina poured a hefty brandy for her sister and sa t beside her o n the sofa, plying her with sp irits and re assurance in
about equal measure. They made little impression on Amanda.
"W hat was that?" G ina asked her father, in a tone that demanded an answer.
"I don't know what it was," Jack replied.
"M ass hysteria?" Gina's displeasure was plain. Her father had a secret: he knew what was going on in the house, but
he was refusing to cough up for some reason.
"What do I call: the police or an exorcist?"
"N either."
"Fo r Go d's sake -"
"T here's nothing go ing on, Gina. Really."
Her father turned from the window and looked at her. His eyes spoke what his mouth refused to say, that this was
war.
Jack was afraid.
The house was sud denly a prison. T he game was suddenly lethal. The enem y, instead of playing foolish game s,
meant harm , real harm to the m all.
In the kitchen the turkey had at last con cede d d efeat. T he carols o n the radio had withered into a sermo n on G od 's
bened ictions.
W hat had been sweet was sour and dangerous. He looked across the room at Amanda and Gina. Both for their own
reasons, were trembling. Polo wanted to tell them, wanted to explain what was going on. But the thing must be there,
he knew, gloating.
He was wrong. The Yattering had retired to the attic, well-satisfied with its endeavours. The bird, it felt, had been a
stroke of genius. Now it could rest a while:
recuperate. Let the enemy's nerves tatter themselves in anticipation. Then, in its own good time, it would deliver the
coup de grace.
Idly, it wondered if any of the inspectors had seen his work with the turkey. Maybe they would be impressed enough
by the Yattering's originality to improve its job prospects. Surely it hadn't gone through all those years of training
simply to chase half-witted im beciles like Polo. T here m ust be so mething more challenging a vailable than tha t. It felt
victory in its invisible bones: and it was a good feeling.
The pursuit of Polo would surely gain momentum no w. His daughters wo uld co nvince him (if he w asn't now quite
convinced ) that there was something terrible afoo t. He would crack. He w ould crumble. M aybe he'd go classically
mad : tear out his hair, rip off his clothes; smear himself with his own excrem ent.
Oh yes, victory was close. And wouldn't his masters be loving then? W ouldn't it be showered with praise, and
power?
One more manifestation was all that was required. One final, inspired intervention, and Polo would be so much
blubbering flesh.
Tired, but confident, the Yattering descended into the lounge.
Amanda was lying full-length on the sofa, asleep. She was obviously dreaming about the turkey. Her eyes rolled
beneath her gossamer lids, her lower lip trembled. Gina sat beside the radio, which was silenced now. She had a
boo k open on her lap , but she wasn't read ing it.
The gherkin importer wasn't in the room. Wasn't that his footstep on the stair? Yes, he was going upstairs to relieve
his brandy-full bladder.
Ideal timing.
The Y attering crossed the room. In her sleep Amanda dreamt something dark flitting across her vision, something
malign, something that tasted bitter in her mouth.
Gina looked up from her bo ok.
The silver balls on the tree were rocking, gently. Not just the balls. The tinsel and the branches too.
In fact, the tree. T he whole tree was rocking as though som eone had just seized hold of it.
Gina had a very bad feeling about this. She stood up. The boo k slid to the floor.
The tree began to spin.

"Christ," she said. "Jesus Christ."
Amanda slept on.
The tree picked up momentum.
Gina walked as steadily as she could across to the sofa and tried to shake her sister awake. Amanda, locked in her
dreams, resisted for a mom ent.
"Father," said Gina. Her voice was strong, and carried through into the hall. It also woke Amanda.
Downstairs, Polo heard a noise like a whining dog. No, like two whining dogs. As he ran down the stairs, the duet
became a trio. H e burst into the lo unge half exp ecting all the hosts o f Hell to be in there, do g-head ed, dancing on his
beauties.
But no. It was the Christmas tree that was whining, whining like a pack of dogs, as it spun and spun.
The lights had long since b een p ulled fro m their so ckets. T he air stank of singed plastic and pine-sap. T he tree itself
was spinning like a top, flinging decorations and presents off its tortured branches with the largesse of a mad king.
Jack tore his eyes from the spectacle of the tree and found Gina and Amanda crouching, terrified, behind the sofa.
"Get out of here," he yelled.
Even as he spoke the television sat up impertinently on one leg and began to spin like the tree, gathering momentum
quickly. The clock on the mantelpiece joined the pirouetting. The po kers beside the fire. The cushions. The
ornaments. Each object added its own singular note to the orchestration of whines which were building up, second
by second, to a deafening pitch. The air began to brim with the smell of burning wood, as friction heated the
spinning tops to flash-point. Smoke swirled across the room.
Gina had Am anda by the arm, and was dragging her towards the door, shielding her face against the hail of pine
need les that the still-accelerating tree was throwing off.
Now the lights were spinning.
The books, having flung themselves off the shelves, had joined the tarantella.
Jack co uld see the enem y, in his mind's eye, racing between the ob jects like a juggler spinning plates o n sticks,
trying to ke ep them all moving at once. It must b e exha usting wo rk, he tho ught. T he de mon was probably clo se to
collapse. It couldn't be thinking straight. Overexcited. Impulsive. Vulnerable. This must be the moment, if ever there
was a m ome nt, to join battle at last. To face the thing, defy it, and trap it.
For its part, the Yattering was enjoying this orgy of destruction. It flung every movable object into the fray, setting
everything spinning.
It watched with satisfaction as the daughters twitched and scurried; it laughed to see the old man stare, pop-eyed, at
this prep ostero us ballet.
Surely he was nearly mad, wasn't he?
The beauties had reached the doo r, their hair and skin full of needles. Polo didn't see them leave. He ran across the
room, dodging a rain of ornaments to do so, and picked up a brass toasting fork which the enemy had overlooked.
Bric-a-brac filled the air around his head, dancing around with sickening speed. His flesh was bruised and punctured.
But the exhilaration of joining battle had overtaken him, and he set about beating the books, and the clocks, and the
china to smithereens. Like a man in a cloud of locusts he ran around the room, bringing d own his favourite bo oks in
a welter of fluttering pages, smashing whirling Dresden, shattering the lamps. A litter of broken possessions
swamped the floor, some of it still twitching as the life went out of the fragments. But for every object brought low,
there were a dozen still spinning, still whining.
He could hear Gina at the door, yelling to him to get out, to leave it alone.
But it was so enjoyable, playing against the enem y more directly than he'd ever allo wed himself before. He didn't
want to give up. He wanted the demon to show itself, to be known, to be recognized.
He wanted confro ntation w ith the O ld One's emissa ry once and for all.
Without warning the tree gave way to the dictates of centrifugal force, and exploded. The noise was like a howl of
death. Bra nches, twigs, needles, balls, lights, wire, rib bons, flew across the room. Jack, his back to the exp losion, felt
a gust of energy hit him hard, and he was flung to the ground. The back of his neck and his scalp were shot full of
pine-needles. A branch, naked of greenery, shot past his head and impaled the sofa. Fragments of tree pattered to the
carpet around him.
Now o ther objects around the room, spun beyond the tolerance of their structures, were exploding like the tree. The
television blew up, sending a lethal wave of glass across the room, much of which buried itself in the op posite wall.
Fragments of the television's innards, so hot they singed the skin, fell on Jack, as he elbowed himself towards the
doo r like a soldier under b omb ardm ent.
The room was so thick with a barrage of shards it was like a fog. The cushions had lent their down to the scene,
snowing on the carpet. Porcelain pieces: a beautifully-glazed arm, a courtesan's head, bounced on the floor in front

of his nose.
Gina was crouching at the door, urging him to hurry, her eyes narrowed against the hail. As Jack reached the door,
and felt her arms around him, he swore he could hear laughter from the lounge. Tangible, audible laughter, rich and
satisfied.
Amanda wa s standing in the hall, her hair full of pine-needles, staring down at him. He pulled his legs through the
doorway and G ina slammed the door shut on the demolition.
"What is it?" she demanded. "Poltergeist? Ghost? Mother's ghost?"
The thought of his d ead wife being resp onsible for such who lesale destructio n struck Jack as funny.
Amanda wa s half smiling. Goo d, he thought, she's coming out of it. Then he met the vacant look in her eyes and the
truth dawned . She'd b roken, her sanity had taken re fuge where this fantastique could n't get at it.
"What's in there?" Gina was asking, her grip on his arm so strong it stopped the blood.
"I don't know," he lied. "Amanda?"
Amanda's smile didn't decay. She just stared on at him, through him.
"Y ou do kno w."
"N o."
"Y ou're lying."
"I think..."
He p icked himself off the floor, brushing the pieces of po rcelain, the feathers, the glass, off his shirt and trousers.
"I think . . . I shall go for a walk."
Behind him, in the lounge, the last vestiges of whining had stopped. The air in the hallway was electric with unseen
presences. It was very close to him, invisib le as ever, but so close. This was the m ost dangerous tim e. He m ustn't
lose his nerve now. He must stand up as though nothing had happened; he must leave Amanda be, leave
explanations and recriminations until it was all over and done with.
"W alk?" Gina said, disbelievingly. "Y es... walk... I ne ed so me fresh air." " Yo u can't leave us here."
"I'll find som ebo dy to he lp us clear up." "B ut M andy."
"She'll get over it. Leave her be."
That was hard. That was almost unforgivable. But it was said now.
He walked unsteadily towards the front door, feeling nauseous after so much spinning. At his back Gina was raging.
"You can't just leave! Are you out of your mind?"
"I need the air," he said, as casually as his thumping heart and his parched throat would permit. "So I'll just go out
for a mome nt."
No, the Yattering said. No, no, no.
It was behind him, Polo could feel it. So angry now, so ready to twist off his head. Except that it wasn't allowed,
ever to touch him. But he could feel its resentment like a physical presence.
He took another step towards the front door.
It was with him still, dogging his every step. His shadow, his fetch; unshakeable. G ina shrieked at him, "Yo u son-o fa-bitch, look a t Mandy! She's lost her mind !"
No , he mustn't look at M andy. If he looked at M andy he might weep , he might brea k down as the thing wanted him
to, then everything would be lost.
"She'll be all right," he said, barely above a whisper. He reached for the front door handle. The demo n bolted the
door, quickly, loudly. No temper left for pretence now.
Jack, keeping his movements as even as possible, unbolted the door, top and bottom. It bolted again.
It was thrilling, this game; it was also terrifying. If he pushed too far surely the demon's frustration would override
its lessons?
Gently, smoothly, he unbolted the d oor again. Just as gently, just as smoothly, the Ya ttering bolted it.
Jack wondered ho w long he could keep this up for. Somehow he had to get outside: he had to coax it over the
threshold. O ne step was all that the law required, accord ing to his researches.
One simple step.
Unbolted. Bolted. Unbolted. Bolted.
Gina was standing two or three yards behind her father. She didn't understand what she was seeing, but it was
obvious her father was doing battle with someone, or something.
"Dad dy -" she began.
"Shut up," he said benignly, grinning as he unbolted the d oor for the seventh tim e. There w as a shiver of lunacy in
the grin, it was too wide and too easy.

Inexplicably, she returned the smile. It was grim, but genuine. Whatever was at issue here, she loved him.
Polo made a break for the back door. The demon was three paces ahead of him, scooting through the house like a
sprinter, and bolting the do or before Jack could even reach the handle. T he key w as turned in the lo ck by invisible
hands, then crushed to dust in the air.
Jack feigned a move towards the window beside the back door but the blinds were pulled down and the shutters
slammed. The Y attering, too concerned with the window to watch Jack closely, missed his doubling back through
the house.
W hen it saw the trick that was being played it let out a little screech, and gave chase, almost sliding into Jack on the
smoothly-polished floor. It avoided the collision only by the most balletic of manoeuvres. That would be fatal
indee d: to touch the man in the heat of the mome nt.
Polo was again at the front door and Gina, wise to her father's strategy, had unbolted it while the Yattering and Jack
fought at the back door. Jack had p rayed she'd take the opportunity to open it. She had. It stood slightly ajar:
The icy air of the crisp afternoon curled its wa y into the hallway.
Jack covered the last yards to the door in a flash, feeling without hearing the howl of complaint the Yattering loosed
as it saw its victim escaping into the outside world.
It was not an am bitio us creature. All it wanted at that mo me nt, beyond any other dream , was to take this hum an's
skull between its palms and make a nonsense of it. Crush it to smithereens, and pour the hot thought out on to the
snow. To be d one with Jack J. Polo, forever and forever.
W as that so much to ask?
Polo had stepped into the squeaky-fresh snow, his slippers and trouser-bottoms buried in chill. By the time the fury
reached the step Jack was already three or four yards away, marching up the path towards the gate. Escaping.
Escaping.
The Yattering howled aga in, forgetting its years o f training. E very lesso n it had learned , every rule of ba ttle
engraved on its skull was submerged by the simple desire to have Polo's life.
It stepped over the threshold and gave chase. It was an unpardonable transgression. Somewhere in Hell, the powers
(long may they hold court; long may they shit light on the heads of the damned) felt the sin, and knew the war for
Jack Polo's soul was lost.
Jack felt it too. He heard the sound of boiling water, as the demon's footsteps melted to steam the snow on the path.
It was co ming after him! T he thing had b roken the first rule o f its existence . It was forfeit. He felt the victory in his
spine, and his stomach.
The demon overtook him at the gate. Its breath could clearly be seen in the air, though the body it emanated from
had not yet become visible.
Jack tried to open the gate, but the Yanering slamm ed it shut.
"Che sera, sera," said Jack.
The Yattering could bear it no longer. H e took Jack's head in his hand s, intending to crush the fragile bo ne to d ust.
The touch was its second sin; and it agonized the Yattering beyond endurance. It bayed like a banshee and reeled
away from the contact, sliding in the snow and falling on its back.
It knew its mistake. The lessons it had had beaten into it came hurtling back. It knew the punishment too, for leaving
the house, for to uching the man. It was b ound to a new lord , enslave d to this id iot-creature standing o ver it.
Polo had wo n.
He was laughing, watching the way the outline of the demon formed in the snow on the path. Like a photograph
developing on a sheet of pap er, the image o f the fury cam e clear. The law was taking its toll. The Yattering could
never hide from its master again. There it was, plain to Polo's eyes, in all its charmless glory. Maroon flesh and
bright lidless eye, arms flailing, tail thrashing the snow to slush.
"Y ou bastard," it said. Its accent had an Australian lilt.
"You will not speak unless spoken to," said Polo, with quiet, but absolute, authority. "Understood?"
The lidless eye clouded with hum ility.
"Yes," the Yattering said.
"Y es, M ister Po lo."
"Y es, M ister Po lo."
Its tail slipped between its legs like that of a whipped do g.
"Y ou may stand ."
"T hank you, M r. Polo."
It stood. Not a pleasant sight, but one Jack rejo iced in nevertheless.

"They'll have you yet," said the Yattering.
"Who will?"
"Y ou know," it said, hesitantly.
"N ame them."
"B eelzebub ," it answered, prou d to na me its old master. "T he po wers. H ell itself."
"I don't think so," Polo mused. "Not with you bound to me as proof of my skills. Aren't I the better of them?"
The eye looked sullen.
"Aren't I?"
"Y es," it conced ed bitterly. "Y es. You are the better of the m."
It had begun to shiver.
"Are you cold?" asked Polo.
It nodded, affecting the look of a lost child.
"T hen you need some exercise," he said. "You'd better go back into the house and start tidying up ."
The fury looked bewildered, even disappointed, by this instruction.
"Nothing more?" it asked incredulously. "No miracles? No Helen of Troy? No flying?"
The thought of flying o n a sno w-spattered afternoon like this left Polo cold. He was essentially a m an of sim ple
tastes: all he asked for in life was the love of his children, a pleasant home, and a goo d trading price for gherkins.
"No flying," he said.
As the Yattering slouched down the path towards the door it seemed to alight upon a new piece of mischief. It turned
back to Polo, obsequious, but unmistakably smug.
"Could I just say something?" it said.
"Sp eak."
"It's only fair tha t I inform you that it's considered ungodly to have any contact with the likes of me. H eretical even."
"Is that so?"
"O h yes," said the Y attering, warming to its pro phecy. "P eop le have been burned for less."
"Not in this day and age," Polo replied.
"B ut the Seraphim will see," it said. " And that means you'll never go to that place."
"What place?"
The Yattering fumbled for the special word it had heard Beelzebub use.
"Heaven," it said, triumphant. An ugly grin had come on to its face; this was the cleverest manoeuvre it had ever
attempted; it was juggling theology here.
Jack nodded slowly, nibbling at his bottom lip.
The creature was probab ly telling the truth: association with it or its like would not be looked upon be nignly by the
Host of Saints and Angels. He probably was forbidden access to the plains of paradise.
"Well," he said, "you know what I have to say about that, don't you?"
The Yattering stared at him, frow ning. N o, it didn't know. T hen the grin of satisfaction it had been wearing d ied, as it
saw just what P olo was driving at.
"W hat do I say?" Polo aske d it.
Defeated, the Yattering murmured the phrase.
"Che sera , sera."
Polo smiled. "T here's a ch ance for you yet," he said, and led the way o ver the thresho ld, closing the door with
something very like serenity on his face.

PIG BLOOD BLUES
YOU COU LD SM ELL the kids before you could see them, their young sweat turned stale in corridors with barred
windo ws, their bolted breath sour, their heads musty. Th en their voices, subdued by the rules of co nfinement.
Do n't run. Do n't shout. D on't whistle. D on't fight.
They called it a Remand Centre for Adolescent Offenders, but it was near as damn it a prison. There were locks and
keys and warders. The gestures of libe ralism were few and far between and they didn't disguise the tru th too w ell;
Tetherdowne was a prison by sweeter name, and the inmates knew it.
Not that Redman had any illusions about his pupils-to-be. They were hard, and they were locked away for a reason.
Mo st of them would rob you blind as soon as look at you; cripple you if it suited them, no sweat. He had too many
years in the force to believe the soc iological lie. He knew the victims, a nd he knew the kids. T hey weren't

misunderstood morons, they were quick and sharp and amoral, like the razors they hid under their tongues. They had
no use for sentim ent, they just wanted out.
"W elcom e to T etherd owne."
W as the woma n's name Leverton, or Leve rfall, or -"I'm Do ctor Leverthal."
Leve rthal. Yes. Hard-b itten bitch he'd me t at -"W e met at the interview."
"Y es."
"W e're glad to see yo u, M r. Red man."
"N eil; please call me Neil."
"W e try not to go on a first nam e basis in front of the boys, we find they think the y've got a finger into yo ur private
life. So I'd p refer you to keep C hristian names p urely for off-duty ho urs."
She d idn't offer hers. Pro bab ly some thing flinty.
Yvonne. Lydia. He'd invent something appropriate.
She looked fifty, and was probably ten years younger.
No make-up, hair tied back so severely he wondered her
eyes didn't pop.
"Y ou'll be beginning classes the day after tom orro w. The G overnor asked me to welco me yo u to the C entre o n his
behalf, and a polo gise to yo u that he can't be here him self. There are funding pro blems."
"Aren't there always?"
"Regrettably yes. I'm afraid we're swimming against the tide here; the general mood o f the country is very Law and
Ord er orientated."
W hat was that a nice way of saying? Beat the shit out of any kid caught so much as jay-walking? Yes, he'd been that
way him self in his time, and it wa s a nasty little cul-de-sac, every b it as bad as being sentim ental.
"The fact is, we may lose Tetherdowne altogether," she said, "which would be a shame. I know it doesn't look like
much . . ."
"- but it's home," he laughed. The joke fell amo ng thieves. She didn't even seem to hear it.
"You," her tone hardened, "you have a solid (did she say sullied?) background in the Police Force. Our hope is that
your appo intment here will be welcom ed by the funding authorities."
So that was it. Token ex-policeman brought in to appease the powers that be, to show willing in the discipline
department. They didn't really want him here. They wanted some sociologist who'd write up reports on the effect of
the class-system on brutality amongst teenagers. She was quietly telling him that he was the odd m an out.
"I told you why I left the force."
"Y ou mentioned it. Invalided out."
"I wo uldn't take a desk job, it was as simple as that; and they wouldn't let me do what I did best. D anger to myse lf
acco rding to som e of them ."
She se emed a little em barrassed by his explana tion. H er a psychologist too ; she should have be en de vouring this
stuff, it was his private hurt he was making public here. He was coming clean, for Christ's sake.
"So I was out on my backside, after twenty-four years." He hesitated, then said his piece. "I'm not a token
policeman; I'm not any kind of policeman. The force and I parted company. Understand what I'm saying?"
"Go od, good." She d idn't understand a bloody word. He tried another approach.
"I'd like to know what the boys have b een told."
"Been told?"
"Abou t me."
"W ell, something o f your background."
"I see." T hey'd been warned. H ere com e the pigs.
"It seemed impo rtant."
He grunted.
"You see, so many of these boys have real aggression problems. That's a source of difficulty for so very many of
them. T hey can't control themselves, and consequently they suffer."
He didn't argue, but she looked at him severely, as though he had.
"Oh yes, they suffer. That's why we're at such pains to show some appreciation of their situation; to teach them that
there are alternatives."
She walked across to the window. From the second storey there was an adequate view of the grounds. Tetherdowne
had be en some kind of estate, and there was a goo d deal o f land attached to the m ain house. A p laying-field, its grass
sere in the midsummer drought. Beyond it a cluster of out-houses, some exhausted trees, shrubbery, and then rough
wasteland off to the wall. He'd seen the wall from the othe r side. A lcatraz would have b een p roud of it.

"W e try to give them a little freedom, a little education and a little sympathy. There's a popular notion, isn't there,
that delinquents enjo y their crim inal activities? T his isn't my exp erience at all. T hey co me to me guilty, broke n. .
One broken victim flicked a vee at Leverthal's back as he sauntered along the corridor. Hair slicked down and parted
in three places. A couple of home-grown tattoos on his fore-arm, unfinished.
"T hey hav e com mitted crimina l acts, however," Redm an po inted o ut.
"Y es, but -, "And must, presum ably, be reminded of the fact."
"I don't think they need any rem inding, Mr. Red man. I think they b urn with guilt."
She was hot on guilt, which didn't surprise him. They'd taken over the pulpit, these analysts. They were up where the
Bible-thumpers used to stand, with the threadbare sermons on the fires below, but with a slightly less colourful
vocabulary. It was fundamentally the same story though, complete with the promises of healing, if the rituals were
observed. And beho ld, the righteous shall inherit the Kingdom of Hea ven.
There was a pursuit on the playing field, he noticed. Pursuit, and now a capture. One victim was laying into another
smaller victim with his boot; it was a fairly merciless display.
Leverthal caught the scene at the same time as Redm an.
"Excuse me. I m ust -"
She started d own the stairs.
"Y our workshop is third do or on the left if you w ant to take a loo k," she called over her sho ulder, "I'll be right b ack."
Like hell she wo uld. Judging by the way the sce ne on the field was pro gressing , it would be a three crowb ar job to
prize them apart.
Redman wa ndered along to his workshop. The doo r was locked, but through the wired glass he could see the
benches, the vices, the tools. Not bad at all. He might even teach them some wood-work, if he was left alone long
enough to do it.
A bit frustrated not to be able to get in, he do ubled b ack along the c orridor, and followed Le verthal downstairs,
finding his way out easily on to the sun-lit playing field. A little knot of spectators had grown around the fight, or the
massacre, which had now ceased. Leverthal was standing, staring down at the boy on the ground. One of the warders
was kneeling at the boy's head; the injuries looked bad.
A number of the spectators looked up and stared at the new face as Redman approached. T here were whispers
amongst them, some sm iles.
Redman loo ked at the boy. Perhaps sixteen, he lay with his cheek to the ground, as if listening for something in the
earth.
"Lacey", Leverthal named the boy for Redman.
"Is he badly hurt?"
The man kneeling beside Lacey shook his head.
"N ot too bad. Bit of a fall. Nothing broken."
There was blood on the boy's face from his mashed nose. His eyes were closed. Peaceful. He could have been dead.
"Where's the bloody stretcher?" said the warder. He was clearly uncomfortable on the drought-hardened ground.
"They're coming, Sir," said someone. Redman thought it was the aggressor. A thin lad: about nineteen. The sort of
eyes that could sou r milk at twenty paces.
Indeed a small posse of boys was emerging from the main building, carrying a stretcher and a red blanket. They
were all grinning from ear to ear.
The band o f spectators had begun to d isperse, now that the best of it was over. No t much fun picking up the pieces.
"Wait, wait," said Redman, "don't we need some witnesses here? Who did this?"
There were a few casual shrugs, but most of them played deaf. They sauntered away as if nothing had been said.
Red man said: "W e saw it. From the wind ow."
Leve rthal was offering no sup port.
"Didn't we?" he demand ed of her.
"It was too far to lay any blame, I think. B ut I don't want to see any more o f this kind o f bullying, do you all
understand me?"
She'd se en Lacey, and recognized him easily from tha t distance. W hy not the attacker too? Red man kicked himself
for not concentrating; without names and personalities to go with the faces, it was difficult to distinguish between
them. The risk of making a misplaced accusation was high, even though he was almost sure of the curdling eyed
boy. This was no time to make mistakes, he decided; this time he'd have to let the issue drop.
Leverthal seemed unmoved by the whole thing.
"Lacey," sh e said q uietly, "it's always L acey."

"He asks for it," said one of the boys with the stretcher, brushing a sheaf of blond-white hair from his eyes, "he
doe sn't know no better."
Ignoring the o bserv ation, Leverthal supe rvised Lace y's transfer to the stretcher, and started to walk back to the main
building, with R edm an in tow . It was all so casual.
"Not exactly wholesome, Lacey," she said cryptically, almost by way of explanation; and that was all. So much for
compassion.
Redman glance d back as they tucked the red blanket around Lacey's still form. Two things happen ed, almost
simultaneously.
The first: Som ebo dy in the group said, "That's the pig" . The seco nd: La cey's eyes opened an d loo ked straight into
Redman's, wide, clear and true.
Redman spent a good deal of the next day putting his workshop in order. Many of the tools had been broken or
rendered useless by untrained handling: saws without teeth, chisels that were chipp ed and edgeless, bro ken vices.
He'd need money to re-supply the shop with the basics of the trade, but no w wasn't the time to start asking. W iser to
wait, and be seen to d o a decent job. H e was q uite used to the politics of institutions; the force was full of it.
About four-thirty a bell started to ring, a go od w ay from the workshop. He ignored it, but after a time his instincts
got the better of him. Bells were alarms, and alarms were sounded to alert people. He left his tidying, locked the
worksho p door behind him, and followed his ears.
The bell was ringing in what was laugh ingly called the Hospital Unit, two or three ro oms closed off from the main
block and prettied up with a few pictures and curtains at the w indows. There w as no sign of sm oke in the air, so it
clearly wasn't a fire. There w as shouting though. M ore tha n shou ting. A ho wl.
He quickened his pace along the interminable corridors, and as he turned a corner towards the Unit a small figure ran
straight into him. T he imp act wind ed both of them, but Red man grabbed the lad by the arm before he could make o ff
again. T he captive was quick to respond, lashing out with his shoeless feet against R edm an's shin. B ut he had him
fast.
"Let me go you fucking -"
"Calm down! Calm dow n!"
His p ursuers were almost there. "Ho ld him!"
"Fucker! Fucker! Fucker! Fucker!"
"H old him!"
It was like w restling a croco dile: the kid had all the strength of fear. But the best of his fury wa s spent.
Tears were springing into his bruised eyes as he spat in Redman's face. It was Lacey in his arms, unwholesome
Lace y.
"O K. W e got him."
Redman stepped back as the warder took over, putting Lacey in a hold that looked fit to break the boy's arm. Two or
three others were appearing round the corner. Two boys, and a nurse, a very unlovely creature.
"Let me go . . . Let me go . . ." La cey was yelling, but any stom ach for the fight had gone out of him. A pout came to
his face in defeat, and still the cow-like eyes turned up accusingly at Redman, big and brown. He looked younger
than his sixteen years, almost prep ubescent. There wa s a whisper of bu m-fluff on his cheek and a few spots amo ngst
the bruises and a badly-applied dressing across his nose. But quite a girlish face, a virgin's face, from an age when
there were still virgins. And still the eyes.
Leverthal had appeared, too late to be of use.
"What's going on?"
The warder p iped up. The chase had taken his breath, and his temper.
"H e locked him self in the lavatories. Tried to ge t out through the windo w."
"Why?"
The question was addressed to the warder, not to the child. A telling confusion. The warder, confounded, shrugged.
"Why?" Redman repeated the question to Lacey. The boy just stared, as though he'd never been asked a question
before.
"You the pig?" he said suddenly, snot running from his nose.
"Pig?"
"He means policeman," said one of the boys. The noun was spoken with a mocking precision, as though he was
addressing an imbecile.
"I know what he m eans, lad ," said Red man, still determined to out-stare Lace y, "I kno w very well what he means."

"Are you?"
"B e quiet, Lacey," said Leverthal, "yo u're in eno ugh trouble as it is."
"Y es, son. I'm the pig."
The war of looks went on, a private battle between boy and man.
"Yo u don't know nothing," said Lacey. It wasn't a snide remark, the boy was simply telling his version of the truth;
his gaze didn't flicker.
"All right, Lacey, that's enough." The warder was trying to haul him away; his belly stuck out between pyjama top
and bottom, a smooth dom e of milk skin.
"Let him speak," said Redman. "What don't I know?"
"H e can give his sid e of the sto ry to the G overnor," said Leverthal befo re Lacey co uld rep ly. "It's not your concern."
But it was very m uch his concern. T he stare mad e it his concern; so cutting, so dam ned. The stare d emanded that it
become his concern.
"Let him speak," said R edman, the authority in his voice overriding L everthal. Th e ward er loo sened his hold just a
little.
"Why did you try and escape, Lacey?"
"Cause he cam e bac k."
"Who came back? A name, Lacey. Who are you talking about?"
For several seconds Redman sensed the boy fighting a pact with silence; then Lacey shook his head, breaking the
electric exchange between them. He seemed to lose his way somewhere; a kind of puzzlement gagged him.
"N o harm's going to come to you."
Lace y stared at his feet, frowning. " I want to go back to bed now," he said. A virgin's request.
"N o harm, Lacey. I promise."
The prom ise seemed to have precious little effect; Lacey was struck dumb. But it was a promise nevertheless, and he
hop ed Lacey re alised that. Th e kid looked exhausted by the effort of his failed escape, of the pursuit, of staring. His
face was ashen. He let the warder turn him and take him b ack. B efore he rounde d the corner again, he seemed to
change his mind; he struggled to loose himself, failed, but managed to twist himself round to face his interrogator.
"H enessey," he said, meeting Redm an's eyes once m ore. T hat was all. He was shunted o ut of sight b efore he could
say anything more.
"H enessey?" said R edm an, feeling like a stranger sud denly.
"Who's Henessey?"
Leverthal was lighting a cigarette. Her hands were shaking ever so slightly as she did it. He hadn't noticed that
yesterday, but he wasn't surprised. He'd yet to meet a head shrinker who didn't have problems of their own.
"T he bo y's lying," she said, "H enesse y's no longer with us."
A little pause. Redm an did n't prom pt, it would only make her jum py.
"Lacey's clever," she went on, putting the cigarette to her colourless lips. "H e knows just the spot."
"Eh?"
"Y ou're new here , and he wants to give yo u the imp ression that he's got a mystery all of his ow n."
"It isn't a mystery then?"
"Henessey?" she snorted. "Good God no. He escaped custody in early May. He and Lacey . . ." She hesitated,
without wanting to. "He and Lacey had som ething between them. Drugs perhaps, we never found out. Glue-sniffing,
mutual masturbation, Go d kno ws what."
She really did find the whole subject unpleasant. Distaste was written over her face in a do zen tight places.
"How did Henessey escape?"
"W e still don't know," she said . "He just didn't turn up for roll-ca ll one m orning. The place was searched from to p to
botto m. B ut he'd go ne."
"Is it possible he'd come back?"
A genuine laugh.
"Jesus no. He hated the place. Besides, how could he get in?"
"H e got out."
Leverthal conceded the point with a murmur. "He wasn't especially bright, but he was cunning. I wasn't altogether
surprised when he went missing. The few weeks before his escape he'd really sunk into himself. I couldn't get
anything out of him, and up until then he'd b een q uite talkative."
"And Lacey?"
"Und er his thumb. It often happens. Younger boy idolizes an older, more experienced individual. Lacey had a very

unsettled family backgro und."
Neat, thought Redman. So neat he didn't believe a word of it. Minds weren't pictures at an exhibition, all numbered,
and hung in order of influence, one marked "C unning", the next, "Impressionable". They were scrawls; they were
sprawling splashes of graffiti, unpredictable, unconfinable.
And little boy Lacey? H e was written on water.
Classe s began the next day, in a heat so op pressive it turned the workshop into an oven by eleven. B ut the bo ys
responded quickly to Redman's straight dealing. They recognized in him a man they could respect without liking.
They exp ected no favours, and received none. It was a stable arran gement.
Redman found the staff on the whole less communicative than the boys. An odd-ball bunch, all in all. Not a strong
heart amon gst them he decided . The routine of T etherd owne, its rituals of classification , of humiliation, seemed to
grind them into a common gravel. Increasingly he found himself avoiding conversation with his peers. The
worksho p beca me a sanctuary, a home from home, sm elling of newly cut wood and bo dies.
It was not until the following Monday that one of the boys mentioned the farm.
Nobody had told him there was a farm in the grounds of the Centre, and the idea struck Redman as absurd.
"N obo dy much goes do wn there," said Cree ley, one of the wo rst woo dwo rkers o n Go d's earth. " It stinks."
General laughter.
"All right, lads, settle dow n."
The laughter subsided , laced with a few whispered jibes.
"Where is this farm, Creeley?"
"It's not even a farm really, sir," said Creeley, chewing his tongue (an incessant routine). "It's just a few huts. Stink,
they do sir. Especially no w."
He pointed out of the window to the wilderness beyond the playing field. Since he'd last looked out at the sight, that
first day with Leverthal, the wasteland had ripened in the sweaty heat, ranker with weeds than ever. Creeley pointed
out a distant brick wall, all but hidden behind a shield of shrubs.
"See it, sir?"
"Y es, I see it."
"T hat's the sty, sir."
Another round o f sniggers.
"W hat's so funny?" he wheeled on the class. A dozen head s snapped down to their work.
"I wo uldn't go d own there sir. It's high as a fucking kite."
Creeley wasn't exaggerating. Even in the relative cool of the late afternoon the smell wafting off the farm was
stomach turning. Redman just followed his nose across the field and past the out-houses. The buildings he glimpsed
from the workshop window were coming out of hiding. A few ramshackle huts thrown up out of corrugated iron and
rotting wo od , a chicken run, and the brick-built sty were all the farm could o ffer. As Creeley had said, it wasn't
really a farm at all. It was a tiny domesticated D achau; filthy and forlorn. Somebo dy obviously fed the few prisoners:
the hens, the half dozen geese, the pigs, but nobody seemed bo thered to clean them out. Hence that rotten smell. The
pigs particularly were living in a bed of their own ordure, islands of dung cooked to perfection in the sun, peopled
with thousands o f flies.
The sty itself was divided into two separate compartments, divided by a high brick wall. In the forecourt of one a
small, mottled pig lay on its side in the filth, its flank alive with ticks and bugs. Another, smaller, pig could be
glimpsed in the gloom of the interior, lying on shit-thick straw. Neither showed any interest in Redman.
The other com partm ent seemed emp ty.
There was no excrement in the forecourt, and far fewer flies amongst the straw. The accumulated smell of old faecal
matter was no less acute, however, and Redman was about to turn away when there was a noise from inside, and a
great bulk righted itself. He leaned over the padlocked wo oden gate, blotting out the stench by an act of will, and
peered through the do orwa y of the sty.
The pig came o ut to look at him. It was three times the size of its companions, a vast sow that might well have
mothered the pigs in the adjacent pen. But where her farrows were filthy-flanked, the sow was pristine, her blushing
pink frame radiant with good health. Her sheer size impressed Redm an. She must have weighed twice what he
weighed, he guessed: an altogether formidable creature. A glamorous animal in her gross way, with her curling
blonde lashes and the delicate down on her shiny snout that coarsened to bristles around her lolling ears, and the
oily, fetching look in her dark b rown eyes.

Redman, a city boy, had seldom seen the living truth behind, or previous to, the meat on his plate. This wonderful
porker came as a revelation. The bad press that he'd always believed about pigs, the reputation that made the very
name a synonym for foulness, all that was given the lie.
The sow was beautiful, from her snuffling snout to the delicate corkscrew of her tail, a seductress on trotters.
Her eyes regarded Red man as an equal, he had no doubt of that, admiring him rather less than he admired her.
She w as safe in her head, he in his. The y were equal under a glittering sky.
Close to, her body smelt sweet. Somebo dy had clearly been there that very morning, sluicing her down, and feeding
her. Her trough, Redman now noticed, still brimmed with a mush of slops, the remains of yesterday's meal. She
hadn't touched it; she was no glutton.
Soo n she seemed to ha ve the sum of him, and grunting quietly she turned around on her nimble feet and returned to
the cool of the interior. The audience was over.
That night he went to find Lacey. T he bo y had b een remov ed from the H ospital Unit and put in a shabby room of his
own. He was appa rently still being bullied by the other boys in his dormitory, and the alternative was this solitary
confinement. Redman found him sitting on a carpet of old comic books, staring at the wall. The lurid covers of the
comics made his face look milkier than ever. The bandage had gone from his nose, and the bruise on the bridge was
yellowing.
He shook Lacey's hand, and the boy gazed up at him. There was a real turn about since their last meeting. Lacey was
calm, even docile. The handshake, a ritual Redman had introduced whenever he met boys out of the workshop, was
weak.
"Are you well?"
The boy nodded.
"Do you like being alone?"
"Y es, sir."
"You'll have to go back to the dormitory eventually." Lacey shook his head.
"Y ou can't stay here forever, you know."
"O h, I know that, sir."
"Y ou'll have to go b ack."
Lace y nodded . Som ehow the logic did n't seem to have got through to the bo y. He turned up the corner of a
Superma n com ic and stared at the splash-page witho ut scann ing it.
"Listen to me, Lacey. I want you and I to understand each other. Yes?"
"Y es, sir."
"I can't help you if you lie to me. Can I?"
"N o."
"Why did you mention Kevin Henessey's name to me last week? I know that he isn't here any longer. He escaped,
didn't he?"
Lacey stared at the three-colour hero on the page.
"Didn't he?"
"He's here," said Lacey, very quietly. The kid was suddenly distraught. It was in his voice, and in the way his face
folded up on itself.
"If he escaped, wh y should he come b ack? That doesn't really ma ke mu ch sense to me, does it make muc h sense to
you?"
Lacey shook his head. There were tears in his nose, that muffled his words, but they were clear enough.
"H e never went away."
"What? You mean he never escaped?"
"H e's clever sir. You don't know K evin. H e's clever." He closed the comic, and loo ked up at R edm an.
"In what way clever?"
"H e planned everything, sir. All of it."
"Y ou have to b e clear."
"You won't believe me. Then that's the end, because you won't believe me. He hears you know, he's everywhere. He
doe sn't care ab out walls. Dead people don't care about no thing like tha t."
Dead. A smaller word than alive ; but it took the breath away.
"H e can com e and go," said Lacey, "any time he wants."
"Are you saying H enesse y is dead ?" said R edm an. "B e care ful, Lacey."
The bo y hesitated: he was aware that he was walking a tight rope, very close to losing his protector.

"You promised," he said suddenly, cold as ice.
"Pro mised no harm wo uld com e to you. It won't. I said that and I meant it. But that doesn't mean you can tell me lies,
Lace y."
"What lies, sir?"
"H enessey isn't dead."
"H e is, sir. They all kno w he is. H e hang ed him self. W ith the pigs."
Red man had b een lied to many times, b y expe rts, and he felt he'd b ecome a good jud ge of liars. He knew all the telltale signs. But the boy exhibited none of them. He was telling the truth. Redman felt it in his bones.
The truth; the w hole truth; nothing but.
That didn't mean that what the boy was saying was true. He was simply telling the truth as he understood it. He
believed Henessey was deceased. That proved nothing.
"If H enesse y were d ead -"
"H e is, sir."
"If he were, how could he be here?"
The boy looked at Redman without a trace of guile in his face.
"Don't you believe in ghosts, sir?"
So transparent a solution, it flummoxed Redman. Henessey was dead, yet Henessey was here. Hence, Henessey was
a ghost.
"Don't you, sir?"
The boy wasn't asking a rhetorical questio n. He wanted , no, he dem anded, a reasonable answer to his re asonable
question.
"N o, bo y," said Red man. "No, I do n't."
Lace y seemed unruffled b y this conflict of opinion. "Yo u'll see," he said simply. "Y ou'll see."
In the sty at the perim eter of the grounds the grea t, nameless sow was hungry.
She judge d the rhythm of the days, and with their progression he r desire s grew. S he kne w that the time for stale
slops in a trough was past. Other ap petites had taken the p lace of those piggy pleasures.
She had a taste, since the first time, for food with a certain texture, a certain reso nance. It wasn't food she would
demand all the time, only when the need came on her. Not a great demand: once in a while, to gobble at the hand
that fed her.
She stood at the gate of her prison, listless with anticipation, waiting and waiting. She snaffled, she snorted, her
impatience b ecoming a dull anger. In the adjacent pen her castrated son s, sensing her distress, became agitated in
their turn. They knew her nature, and it was dangerous. She had, after all, eaten two of their brothers, living, fresh
and wet from her own womb.
Then there were no ises through the blue ve il of twilight, the soft brushing sound of passage thro ugh the nettles,
accom panied b y the murmur o f voices.
Tw o bo ys were approaching the sty, respect and caution in every step. She ma de them nervous, and understandably
so. The tales of her tricks were legion.
Didn't she speak, when angered, in that possessed voice, bending her fat, porky mouth to talk with a stolen tongue?
W ouldn't she stand on her back trotters sometimes, pink an d imp erial, and dem and that the sm allest bo ys be sent into
her shadow to suckle her, naked like her farrow? And wouldn't she beat her vicious heels upon the ground, until the
food they brought for her was cut into petit pieces and delivered into her maw between trembling finger and thumb?
All these things she did.
And worse.
To night, the b oys kne w, they had not brought what she wanted. It was not the meat she was due that lay on the plate
they carried. Not the sweet, white meat that she had asked for in that other voice of hers, the meat she could, if she
desired, take by force. Tonight the meal was simply stale bacon, filched from the kitchens. The nourishment she
really craved, the meat that had been pursued and terrified to engorge the muscle, then bruised like a hammered
steak for her delectation, that meat was under special protection. It would take a while to coax it to the slaughter.
Mea nwhile they hoped she would accep t their apologies and their tears, and not devour them in her anger.
One of the boys had shit his pants by the time he reached the sty-wall, and the sow smelt him. Her voice took on a
different timbre, enjoying the piquancy of their fear.
Instead of the low snort there was a higher, hotter note out of her. It said: I know, I know. Come and be judged.
I know, I know.
She watched them through the slats of the gate, her eyes glinting like jewels in the murky night, brighter than the
night because living, purer than the night because wanting.

The boys knelt at the gate, their heads bowed in supplication, the plate they both held lightly covered with a piece of
stained muslin.
"W ell?" she said. The voice was unmistakable in their ears. His voice, out of the mouth of the pig.
The elder boy, a black kid with a cleft palate, spoke quietly to the shining eyes, making the best of his fear:
"It's not what you wanted . W e're sorry."
The other boy, uncomfortable in his crowded trousers, murmured his apology too.
"W e'll get him for you tho ugh. W e will, really. W e'll bring him to you very soo n, as soo n as we possibly can."
"W hy not tonight?" said the pig.
"H e's being p rotected."
"A new tea cher. M r. Red man."
The sow seemed to know it all already. She remembered the confrontation across the wall, the way he'd stared at her
as though she was a zoological specime n. So that was her en emy, that old man. She'd have him. Oh yes.
The boys heard her prom ise of revenge, and seemed content to have the matter taken out of their hands.
"G ive her the meat," said the black bo y.
The other one stood up, removing the muslin cloth. The bacon smelt bad, but the sow nevertheless made wet noises
of enthusiasm. Maybe she had forgiven them.
"G o on, quickly."
The boy took the first strip of baco n between finger and thumb and p roffered it. The sow turned her mouth sideways
up to it and ate, showing her yellowish teeth. It was gone quickly. The second, the third, fourth, fifth the same.
The sixth and last piece she took with his fingers, snatched with such elegance and speed the boy could only cry out
as her teeth champed through the thin digits and swallowed them. He withdrew his hand from over the sty wall, and
gawped at this mutilation. She had done only a little damage, considering. The top of his thumb and half his index
finger had gone. The wounds bled quickly, fully, splashing on to his shirt and his shoes. She grunted and snorted and
seemed satisfied.
The bo y yelped and ran.
"T omo rrow," said the sow to the remaining supp licant. "N ot this old pig-me at. It must b e white. W hite and lacy."
She thought that was a fine joke.
"Y es," the boy sa id, "yes, of course."
"Without fail," she ordered.
"Y es."
"Or I come for him myself. Do you hear me?"
"Y es."
"I co me for him myself, wherever he's hiding. I will eat him in his bed if I wish. In his slee p I will eat off his feet,
then his legs, then his balls, then his hips -,"
"Y es, yes."
"I want him," said the sow, grinding her trotter in the straw.
"H e's mine."
"Henessey dead?" said Leverthal, head still down as she wrote one of her interminable reports. "It's another
fabrication. One minute the child says he's in the Centre, the next he's dead. The bo y can't even get his story
straight."
It was difficult to argue with the contradictions unless one accepted the idea of ghosts as readily as Lacey. There was
no way Redman w as going to try and argue that point with the woman. That part was a nonsense. Ghosts were
foolishness; just fears made visible. But the possibility of Henessey's suicide made more sense to Redman. He
pressed on with his argume nt.
"So where did Lacey get this story fro m, about H enesse y's death? It's a funny thing to invent."
She d eigned to look up, her face drawn up into itself like a snail in its shell.
"Fertile imaginations are par for the course here. If you heard the tales I've got on tape: the exoticism of some of
them w ould blow your he ad open."
"Have there been suicides here?"
"In my time?" She thought for a moment, pen poised. "Two attempts. Neither, I think, intended to succeed. Cries for
help."
"Was Henessey one?"
She allowed herself a little sneer as she shook her head.
"H enessey was unstable in a com pletely d ifferent direction. He thought he was going to live forever. T hat was his
little dream: Henessey the Nietzchean Superman. He had something close to contempt for the common herd. As far

as he was concerned, he was a breed apart. As far beyond the rest of us mere mortals as he was beyond that wretched
-"
He knew she was going to say pig, but she stopped just short of the word.
"T hose wretched an imals on the farm ," she sa id, looking back d own at her report.
"Henessey spent time at the farm?"
"No more than any other boy," she lied. "None o f them like farm duties, but it's part of the work rota. Mucking out
isn't a very pleasant o ccup ation. I can testify to that."
The lie he knew she'd told made R edman keep b ack Lacey's final detail: that Henessey's death had taken place in the
pig-sty.
He shrugged, and took an entirely different tack.
"Is Lacey under any medication?"
"So me sedatives."
"Are the boys always sedated when they've been in a fight?"
"Only if they try to make escapes. W e haven't got enough staff to supervise the likes of Lacey. I don't see why you're
so co ncerned."
"I want him to trust me. I p romised him . I don't want him let d own."
"Frankly, all this sounds suspiciously like special pleading. The bo y's one of many. No unique problems, and no
particular ho pe of redemptio n."
"Redemption?" It was a strange word.
"Rehabilitation, whatever you choose to call it. Look, Redman, I'll be frank. There's a general feeling that you're not
really playing ball here."
"Oh?"
"We all feel, I think this includes the Governor, that you should let us go about our business the way we're used to.
Learn the ropes b efore you start -"
"Interfering."
She nodd ed. "It's as good a wo rd as any. Yo u're making enemies."
"T hank you for the warning."
"T his job 's difficult enough witho ut enem ies, believe me ."
She attempted a conciliatory look, which Redman ignored.
Enemies he could live with, liars he cou ldn't.
The Gov ernor's room was locked , as it had been for a full week now. Exp lanations differed as to where he was.
Mee tings with funding bodies was a favourite reason touted amongst the staff, though the Secretary claimed she
didn't exactly know. There were Seminars at the University he was running, somebody said, to bring some research
to bear on the problems of Remand Centres. Maybe the Governo r was at one of those. If Mr. Redman wanted, he
could leave a me ssage, the Governor w ould get it.
Back in the workshop, Lacey was waiting for him. It was almost seven-fifteen: classes were well over.
"What are you doing here?"
"W aiting, sir."
"What for?"
"You, sir. I wanted to give you a letter, sir. For me mam. Will you get it to her?"
"You can send it through the usual channels, can't you? Give it to the Secretary, she'll forward it. You're allowed two
letters a week."
Lace y's face fell.
"T hey read them , sir: in case yo u write so mething you shouldn't. And if you do, they burn them."
"And you've written something you shouldn't?"
He nodded.
"What?"
"Abou t Kevin. I told her all about K evin, ab out what happened to him."
"I'm no t sure you've got yo ur facts righ t about Henessey."
The bo y sh rugged . "It's true, sir," he said q uietly, appa rently no longer caring if he convinced Red ma n or not "It's
true. H e's there, sir. In her."
"In who? What are you talking about?"
Maybe Lace y was speaking , as Leverthal ha d sugg ested, simply o ut of his fear. There had to b e a limit to his
patience with the boy, and this w as just ab out it.
A knoc k on the do or, and a sp otty individual called Slap e was staring at him through the wired glass.

"Come in."
"U rgent telepho ne call for you, sir. In the Secretary's Office."
Redman hated the telephone. Unsavo ury machine: it never brought goo d tidings.
"Urgent. Who from?"
Slape shrugged and picked at his face.
"Stay with Lacey, will you?"
Slape looked unhap py with the prospect.
"Here, sir?" he asked.
"H ere."
"Y es, sir."
"I'm relying on yo u, so don't let me d own."
"N o, sir."
Red man turned to Lac ey. The bruised look was a wound now o pen, as he we pt.
"G ive me your letter. I'll take it to the O ffice."
Lacey had thrust the envelope into his pocket. He retrieved it unwillingly, and handed it across to Redman.
"Say thank yo u."
"T hank you, sir."
The corridors were emp ty.
It was television time, and the nightly worship of the box had begun. They would be glued to the black and white set
that dominated the Recreation Room, sitting through the pap of Cop Shows and G ame Shows and W ars from the
W orld Shows with their jaws open and their minds closed. A hypnotized silence would fall on the assembled
com pany until a pro mise o f violence or a hint of sex. Then the ro om w ould erupt in whistles, obscenities, and shouts
of encouragement, only to subside again into sullen silence during the dialogue, as they waited for another gun,
another breast. He could hear gunfire and music, even now, echoing down the corridor.
The Office was o pen, but the S ecretary wasn't there . Gone home p resum ably. T he clock in the Office said eightnineteen. Redman amended his watch.
The telephone was on the hook. W hoever had called him had tired of waiting, leaving no message. Relieved as he
was that the call wasn't urgent en ough to keep the caller hanging o n, he no w felt disap pointed no t to be sp eaking to
the outside world. Like Crusoe seeing a sail, only to have it sweep by his island.
Ridiculous: this wasn't his prison. He could walk out whenever he liked. He would walk out that very night: and be
Crusoe no longer.
He contemp lated leaving Lacey's letter on the desk, but thought better of it. He had prom ise d to p rotect the boy's
interests, and that he would do. If necessary, he 'd post the letter himself.
Thinking o f nothing in particular, he started b ack toward s the wo rkshop. Vague wisps o f unease floated in his
system, clogging his responses. Sighs sat in his throat, scowls on his face. This damn place, he said aloud, not
meaning the walls and the floors, but the trap they represented. He felt he could die here with his good intentions
arrayed aro und him like flowers ro und a stiff, and nobo dy would know, or ca re, or mou rn. Idealism was we akness
here, compassion and indulgence. Unease was all: unease and -Silence.
That was what was wrong. Though the television still popped and screamed down the corridor, there was silence
accom panying it. No wolf-whistles, no cat-calls.
Red man darted back to the vestibule and dow n the co rridor to the R ecrea tion Room . Smo king was allowe d in this
section of the building, and the area stank of stale cigarettes. Ahead, the noise of mayhem continued unabated. A
woman screamed somebod y's name. A man answered and was cut off by a blast of gunfire. Stories, half-told, hung
in the air.
He reached the room , and opened the doo r.
The televisio n spo ke to him. "G et down!"
"H e's got a gun!"
Ano ther sho t.
The woman, blonde, big-breasted, took the bullet in her heart, and died on the sidewalk beside the man she'd loved.
The tragedy went unwatched. The Recreation Room was empty, the old armchairs and graffiti-carved stools placed
around the television set for an audience who had better entertainment for the evening. Redman wove between the
seats and turned the television off. As the silver-blue fluorescence died, and the insistent beat of the music was cut
dead, he became awa re, in the gloom, in the hush, of somebody at the door.
"Who is it?"

"Slape, sir."
"I told you to stay with Lacey."
"H e had to go, sir."
"Go?"
"H e ran off, sir. I couldn't stop him."
"Damn you. What do you mean, you couldn't stop him?"
Red man started to re-cro ss the room, catching his foot o n a stoo l. It scraped on the linoleum, a little protest.
Slape twitched.
"I'm sorry, sir," he said, "I couldn't catch him. I've go t a bad foot."
Yes, Slape did limp. "W hich wa y did he go?" Slape shrugged. "N ot sure, sir."
"W ell, reme mbe r."
"N o need to lose your temp er, sir."
The 'sir' was slurred: a parody of respect. Redman found his hand itching to hit this pus-filled adolescent. He was
within a couple of feet of the door. Slape didn't move aside.
"O ut of my way, Slap e."
"Really, sir, there's no way yo u can help him now. H e's gone."
"I said , out of m y way."
As he stepped forward to push Slape aside there was a click at navel-level and the bastard had a flick-knife pressed
to Redman's belly. The po int bit the fat of his stomach.
"T here's really no nee d to go after him, sir."
"What in God's name are you doing, Slape?"
"W e're just playing a game," he said through teeth gone grey.
"T here's no real harm in it. B est leave well alone."
The point of the knife had drawn blood. Warmly, it wended its way down into Redman's groin. Slape was prepared
to kill him; no do ubt of that. W hateve r this game was, S lape w as having a little fun all o f his own. Killing tea cher, it
was ca lled. T he knife was still being pre ssed, infinitesimally slowly, through the wall of Re dma n's flesh. The little
rivulet of blood had thickened into a stream.
"Kevin likes to come out and play once in a while," said Slape.
"Henessey?"
"Yes, you like to call us by our second names, don't you? That's more manly isn't it? That means we're not children,
that means we're men. Kevin isn't quite a man though, you see sir. He's never wanted to be a man. In fact, I think he
hated the idea. You know why? (The knife divided muscle now, just gently). He thought once you were a man, you
started to die: and K evin use d to say he'd never die."
"N ever d ie." "N ever."
"I want to me et him."
"Everybody d oes, sir. H e's charism atic. That's the Doctor's word for him: Charismatic."
"I want to me et this charismatic fellow."
"So on."
"N ow."
"I said soon ."
Red ma n too k the knife-hand at the wrist so q uickly S lape had no chance to p ress the weapo n hom e. The adolescent's
response was slow, do pe d p erhaps, and Red ma n had the better of him. T he knife drop pe d from his hand as Red ma n's
grip tightened , the other hand took Slape in a strangle-hold, easily ro unding his emaciated neck. R edm an's palm
pressed on his assailant's Adam's apple, making him gargle.
"W here's H enesse y? Y ou take me to him."
The eyes that looked down a t Redm an were slurred as his words, the irises pin-pricks.
"Take me to him!" Redman demanded.
Slape's hand found Redman's cut belly, and his fist jabbed the wound. Redman cursed, letting his hold slip, and
Slape almo st slid out o f his grasp , but Redm an drove his knee into the o ther's groin, fast and sharp. Slape wanted to
double up in agony, but the neck-hold prevented him. The knee rose again, harder. And again. Again.
Spontaneous tears ran down S lape's face, coursing through the minefield of his boils.
"I can hurt yo u twice as badly as yo u can hurt me ," Red ma n said, "so if yo u want to go on do ing this all night I'm
happy as a sand-boy."
Slape sho ok his head, grabbing his bre ath through his constricted windpipe in short, painful gasps.
"You don't want any more?"

Slape shook his head again. Redman let go of him, and flung him across the corridor against the wall. Whimpe ring
with pain, his face crimped , he slid down the wall into a foetal position, hands b etween his legs.
"Where's Lacey?"
Slape had begun to shake; the words tumbled out. "W here d "you think? Kevin's got him."
"Where's Kevin?"
Slape looked up at Redman, puzzled.
"Don't you know?"
"I wouldn't ask if I did, would I?"
Slape seemed to pitch forward as he spoke, letting out a sigh of pain. Redman's first thought was that the youth was
collapsing, but Slape had other ideas. The knife was suddenly in his hand again, snatched from the floor, and Slape
was driving it up towards Redm an's groin. He sid estepped the cut with a hair's bre adth to spare, and S lape w as on his
feet again, the pain forgotten. The knife slit the air back and forth, Slape hissing his intention through his teeth.
"K ill you, pig. K ill you, pig."
Then his mouth was wide and he was yelling: "K evin! K evin! H elp me!"
The slashes were less and less accurate as Slape lost control of himself, tears, snot and sweat sliming his face as he
stumbled towards his intended victim.
Redman chose his moment, and delivered a crippling blow to Slape's knee, the weak leg, he guessed. He guessed
correctly.
Slape screamed, and staggered back, reeling round and hitting the wall face on. Redman followed through, pressing
Slape's back. Too late, he realized what he'd done. Slape's body relaxed as his knife hand, crushed between wall and
body, slid out, bloody and weap on less. Slape exhaled death-air, and collapsed heavily against the wall, driving the
knife still deeper into his own gut. He was dead before he touched the ground.
Redman turned him over. He 'd never become used to the suddenness of death. To be gone so quickly, like the image
on the television screen. Switched off and blank. No message.
The utter silence of the corrid ors becam e ove rwhelm ing as he walked back towards the vestibule. The cut on his
stomach was not significant, and the blood had m ade its own scabby bandage of his shirt, knitting cotton to flesh and
sealing the wound. It scarcely hurt at all. But the cut was the least of his problems: he had mysteries to unravel now,
and he felt unable to face them. The used, exhausted atmosphere of the place made him feel, in his turn, used and
exhausted. There was no health to be had here, no goodness, no reason.
He b elieved, sudd enly, in ghosts.
In the vestib ule there was a light burning, a bare bulb suspe nded over the dead spa ce. By it, he read L acey's
crumpled letter. The smudged words on the paper were like matches set to the tinder of his panic.
Mama,
They fed me to the pig. Don't believe them if they said I never loved you, or if they said I ran away. I never did.
They fed me to the pig. I love you.
To mmy.
He p ocketed the letter and began to run out of the building and acro ss the field. It was well dark now: a de ep, starless
dark, and the air was muggy. Even in daylight he wasn't sure of the route to the farm; it was worse by night. He was
very soon lost, some where betwe en the p laying-field and the trees. It was too far to see the outline of the m ain
building behind him, and the trees ahead all looked alike.
The night-air was foul; no wind to freshen tired limbs. It was as still outside as inside, as though the whole world had
become an interior: a suffocating room bounded by a painted ceiling of cloud.
He stood in the dark, the blood thump ing in his head, and tried to orient himself.
To his left, where he had guessed the out-houses to be, a light glimmered. Clearly he was completely mistaken about
his position. T he light wa s at the sty. It threw the ram shackle chicken run into silhouette as he stared at it.
There were figures there, several; standing as if watching a spectacle he couldn't yet see.
He started towards the sty, not knowing what he would do once he reached it. If they were all armed like Slape, and
shared his murderous intentions, then that would be the end of him. The thought didn't worry him. Somehow tonight
to get off of this closed-do wn wo rld was an attractive option. Down and out.
And there was Lacey. There'd been a moment of doub t, after speaking to Leverthal, when he'd wondered why he
cared so much ab out the boy. T hat acc usation of special pleading, it had a certain truth to it. W as there something in
him that wanted Thomas Lacey naked beside him? Wasn't that the sub-text of Leverthal's remark? Even now,
running uncertainly towards the lights, all he could think of was the boy's eyes, huge and demanding, looking deep
into his.

Ahead there were figures in the night, wandering away from the farm. He could see them against the lights of the
sty. Was it all over already? He made a long curve around to the left of the buildings to avoid the spectators as they
left the scene. They made no noise: there was no chatter or laughter amongst them. Like a congregation leaving a
funeral they walked evenly in the dark, each ap art from the other, heads bow ed. It was eerie, to see these go dless
delinquents so subdued by reverence.
He reached the chicken-run without encountering any of them face to face.
There we re still a few figures lingering aro und the pig-ho use. T he wall of the sow's compartm ent was lined with
candles, dozens and dozens of them. They burned steadily in the still air, throwing a rich warm light on to brick, and
on to the faces of the few who still stared into the mysteries of the sty.
Leverthal was among them, as was the warder who'd knelt at Lacey's head that first day. Two or three boys were
there too, whose faces he recognized but could put no name to.
There was a noise from the sty, the sound of the sow's feet on the straw as she accepted their stares. Somebody was
speaking, but he couldn't make out who. An adolescent's voice, with a lilt to it. As the voice halted in its monologue,
the warder and another of the boys broke rank, as if dismissed, and turned away into the dark. Redma n crep t a little
closer. Tim e was o f the essence no w. Soon the first of the co ngregation would have c rossed the field and b e bac k in
the M ain B uilding. T hey'd see Slape's corp se: raise the alarm . He m ust find Lacey now, if indeed Lace y was still to
be found.
Leverthal saw him first. She looked up from the sty and nodded a greeting, apparently unconcerned by his arrival. It
was as if his appearance at this place was inevitable, as if all routes led back to the farm, to the straw house and the
smell of excrement. It made a kind of sense that she'd b elieve that. He almost believed it himself.
"Leverthal," he said.
She smiled at him, openly. The boy beside her raised his head and smiled too.
"Are you Henessey? " he asked, looking at the boy.
The youth laughed, and so did Leverthal.
"N o," she said. " No . No. No. Hen essey is here."
She p ointed into the sty.
Redman wa lked the few remaining yards to the wall of the sty, expecting and not daring to expect, the straw and the
bloo d and the pig and Lacey.
But Lacey wasn't there. Just the sow, big and beady as ever, standing amongst pats of her own ordure, her huge,
ridiculous ears flapp ing over her eyes.
"W here's Henessey?" asked Redman, meeting the sow's gaze.
"H ere," said the boy.
"T his is a pig."
"She ate him," said the youth, still smiling. He obviously thought the idea delightful. "She ate him: and he speaks out
of her."
Redman wa nted to laugh. This made Lacey's tales of ghosts seem almost plausible by comparison. They were telling
him the pig was possessed.
"Did Henessey hang himself, as Tommy said?"
Leverthal nodded.
"In the sty?"
Another nod.
Suddenly the pig took on a different aspect. In his imagination he saw her reaching up to sniff at the feet of
Henessey's twitching body, sensing the death coming over it, salivating at the thought of its flesh. He saw her licking
the dew that oozed from its skin as it rotted, lapping at it, nibbling daintily at first, then devouring it. It wasn't too
difficult to understand how the boys could have made a m ythology of that atrocity: inventing hymns to it, attending
upon the pig like a god. The candles, the reverence, the intended sacrifice of Lacey: it was evidence of sickness, but
it was no more strange than a thousand other customs of faith. He even began to understand Lace y's lassitude, his
inability to fight the powers that overtook him.
Mam a, they fed me to the pig.
Not M ama, help me, save me. Just: they gave me to the pig.
All this he could understand: they were children, many of them under-educated , some verging on mental instability,
all susceptible to superstition. But that didn't explain Leverthal. She was staring into the sty again, and Redman
registere d for the first time that her hair was unclipped, and lay on her shoulders, honey-coloured in the candlelight.
"It looks like a pig to me, plain and simple," he said.
"She speaks with his voice," Leverthal said, quietly. "Speaks in tongues, you might say. You'll hear him in a while.

My darling boy."
Then he understood. "You and Henessey?"
"D on't look so horrified," she said . "He was eighteen: hair blacker than you've ever se en. An d he lo ved me."
"Why did he hang himself?"
"T o live forever," she sa id, 'so he'd never b e a ma n, and die."
"W e didn't find him for six days," said the youth, almost whispering it in Red ma n's ear, "and even then she wouldn't
let anybody near him, once she had him to herself. The pig, I mean. Not the Doctor. Everyone loved Kevin, you
see," he whisp ered intimately. "He was beautiful."
"And where's Lacey?"
Leverthal's loving smile decayed.
"With Kevin," said the youth, "where Kevin wants him." He pointed through the door of the sty. There was a body
lying on the straw, back to the door.
"If yo u want him, yo u'll have to go and get him," said the boy, and the next mom ent he had the back of Red ma n's
neck in a vice-like grip.
The sow respo nded to the sudden action. She started to stamp the straw, showing the whites of her eyes.
Red man tried to shrug o ff the boy's grip, at the same time delivering an elbo w to his b elly. The boy back ed off,
winde d and cursing, only to b e replaced by Leverthal.
"G o to him ," she sa id as she snatche d at Redm an's hair. "G o to him if you want him." H er nails raked across his
temple and nose, just missing his eyes.
"G et off me!" he said, trying to shake the woman off, but she clung, he r head lashing b ack and forth as she tried to
press him over the wall.
The rest happened with horrid speed. Her long hair brushed through a candle flame and her head caught fire, the
flames climbing quickly. Shrieking for help she stumbled heavily against the gate. It failed to supp ort her weight,
and gave inward. Redman watched helplessly as the burning woman fell amongst the straw. The flames spread
enthusiastically across the forecourt towards the sow, lapping up the kindling.
Even now, in extremis, the pig was still a pig. No miracles here: no speaking, or pleading, in tongues. The animal
panicked as the blaze surroun ded her, co rnering her stam ping b ulk and licking at her flanks. The air was filled with
the stench of singeing bacon as the flames ran up her sides and over her head, chasing through her bristles like a
grass-fire.
Her voice was a pig's voice, her complaints a pig's complaints. Hysterical grunts escaped her lips and she hurtled
across the fore court of the sty and out of the broken gate, trampling Leverthal.
The sow's body, still burning, was a magic thing in the night as she careered across the field, weaving about in her
pain. Her cries did not diminish as the dark ate her up, they seemed just to echo back and forth across the field,
unable to find a way out of the locked room.
Redman stepped over Leverthal's fire-ridden corpse and into the sty. The straw was burning on every side, and the
fire was creeping towards the door. He half-shut his eyes against the stinging smoke and ducked into the pig-house.
Lacey was lying as he had been all along, back to the door. Redman turned the boy over. He was alive. He was
awake. His face, bloated with tears and terror, stared up off his straw pillow, eyes so wide they looked fit to leap
from his head.
"G et up," said R edm an, leaning over the b oy.
His small body was rigid, and it was all Redman co uld do to prize his limbs apart. With little words of care, he
coaxed the boy to his feet as the smoke began to swirl into the pig-house.
"Come on, it's all right, come o n."
He stood upright and something brushed his hair. Redman felt a little rain of worms across his face and glanced up
to see Henessey, or what was left of him, still suspended from the crossbeam of the pig-house. His features were
incomprehensible, blackened to a drooping mush. His body was raggedly gnawed off at the hip, and his innards
hung from the foetid carcass, dangling in wormy loops in front of Redman's face.
Had it not been for the thick smoke the smell of the body would have been overpowering. As it was Redman was
simply revolted, and his revulsion gave strength to his arm. He hauled Lacey out of the shadow of the body and
pushed him through the door.
Outside the straw wa s no longer b lazing as brightly, but the light o f fire and c andles and burning bo dy still mad e him
squint after the dark interior.
"Come on lad," he said, lifting the kid through the flames. The boy's eyes were button-bright, lunatic-bright. They
said futility.

They crossed the sty to the gate, skipping Leverthal's corpse, and headed into the darkness of the open field.
The bo y seemed to be stirring from his stricken state with every step they took away from the farm. Behind them the
sty was already a blazing memory. Ahead, the night was as still and impenetrable as ever.
Red man tried no t to think of the pig. It m ust be d ead by now, surely.
But as they ran, there seemed to b e a noise in the ea rth as something huge kept p ace with them, content to keep its
distanc e, wary now b ut relentless in its pursu it.
He dragged on Lacey's arm, and hurried on, the ground sun baked beneath their feet. Lacey was whimpering now, no
words as yet, but sound at least. It was a good sign, a sign Redman needed.
He'd had abou t his fill of insanity.
They reached the building without incident. The corridors were as empty as they'd been when he'd left an hour ago.
Perhaps nobody had found Slape's corpse yet. It was possible. None of the boys had seemed in a fit mood for
recreation. Perhaps they had slipped silently to their dormitories, to sleep off their worship.
It was time to find a phone and call the Police.
Man and boy walked down the corridor towards the Governor's Office hand in hand. Lacey had fallen silent again,
but his expression was no longer so manic; it looked as though cleansing tears might be close. He sniffed; made
noises in his throat.
His grip on Red man's hand tightened , then relaxed com pletely.
Ahead, the vestibule was in darkness. Somebody had smashed the bulb recently. It still rocked gently on its cable,
illuminated by a seepage of dull light from the window.
"Come on. T here's no thing to b e afraid of. Co me o n, boy."
Lacey bent to Redman's hand and bit the flesh. The trick was so quick he let the boy go before he could prevent
himself, and Lacey was showing his heels as he scooted away down the corridor away from the vestibule.
No matter. He co uldn't get far. For once R edma n was glad the p lace had walls and bars.
Redman crossed the darkened vestibule to the Secretary's Office. Nothing moved. Whoever had broken the bulb was
keep ing very q uiet, very still.
The telephone had bee n smashed too. No t just broken, smashed to smithereens.
Redman do ubled b ack to the G overno r's room. There was a telephone there; he'd not be stopped by vandals.
The door was locked, of course, but Redman was prepared for that. He smashed the frosted glass in the window of
the door with his elbow, and reached through to the other side. No key there.
To hell with it, he thought, and put his shoulder to the door. It was sturdy, strong wood, and the lock was good
quality. His shoulder ached and the wound in his stomach had reopened by the time the lock gave, and he gained
access to the room.
The floor was littered with straw; the smell inside made the sty seem sweet. T he G overnor was lying behind his
desk, his heart eaten out.
"The pig," said Redman. "The pig. The pig." And saying, 'the pig', he reached for the phone.
A sound. He turned, and met the blow full-face. It broke his cheek-bone and his nose. The room mo ttled, and went
white.
The vestibule was no longer dark. Candles were burning, it seemed hundreds of them, in every corner, on every
edge. But then his head was swimming, his eyesight blurred with concussion. It could have been a single candle,
multiplied by senses that could no longer be trusted to tell the truth.
He stood in the mid dle of the arena of the vestibule, not quite knowing ho w he could be standing, for his legs felt
numb and useless beneath him. A t the periphery of his vision, beyo nd the light of the candles, he co uld hear people
talking. No, not really talking. They weren't proper words. They were nonsense sounds, made by people who may or
may not have been there.
Then he heard the grunt, the low, asthmatic grunt of the sow, and straight ahead she emerged from the swimming
light of the candles. She was bright and beautiful no longer. Her flanks were charred, her beady eyes withered, her
snout somehow twisted out of true. She hobbled towards him very slowly, and very slowly the figure astride her
became apparent. It was Tommy Lacey of course, naked as the day he was born, his body as pink and as hairless as
one of her farrow, his face as innocent of human feeling. His eyes were now her eyes, as he guided the great sow by
her ears. And the noise of the sow, the snaffling sound, was not out of the pig's mouth, but out of his. His was the
voice of the pig.
Redman said his name, quietly. Not Lacey, but Tommy. The boy seemed not to hear. Only then, as the pig and her
rider approached, did Redman register why he hadn't fallen on his face.
There was a rope around his neck.
Even as he thought the thought, the noose tightened, and he was hauled off his feet into the air.

No pa in, but a terrible horror, worse, so much worse than pain, opened in him, a gorge of loss and regret, and all he
was san k away into it.
Below him, the sow and the boy had come to a halt, beneath his jangling feet. The boy, still grunting, had climbed
off the pig and was squatting down beside the beast. Through the greying air Redman could see the curve of the
boy's spine, the flawless skin of his back. He saw too the kno tted rope that protruded from betwe en his pale buttocks,
the end frayed. For all the world like the tail of a pig.
The sow put its head up, though its eyes were beyond seeing.
He liked to think that she suffered, and would suffer now until she died. It was alm ost sufficient, to think of that.
Then the sow's mouth opened, and she spoke. He wasn't certain how the words came, but they came. A boy's voice,
lilting.
"T his is the state o f the bea st," it said, " to eat and be eaten."
Then the so w smiled , and R edm an felt, thou gh he had believed himself numb, the first shock of pa in as Lacey's teeth
bit off a piece from his foot, and the boy clambered, snorting, up his saviour's body to kiss out his life.

SEX, DEATH, AND STAR SHINE
DIAN E RA N H ER scented fingers through the two days' growth of ginger stubble on Te rry's chin.
"I love it," she said, "Even the gre y bits."
She loved everything about him, or at least that's what she claimed.
W hen he kissed her: I love it.
W hen he undressed her: I love it.
W hen he slid his briefs off: I love it, I love it, I love it.
She'd go down on him with such unalloyed enthusiasm, all he could do was watch the top of her ash-blonde head
bobbing at his groin, and hope to God nob ody chanced to walk into the dressing-room. She was a married woman,
after all, even if she was an actress. He had a wife himself, somewhere. This tte--tte would make some juicy copy
for one of the local rags, and here he was trying to garner a reputation as a serious-minded director; no gimmicks, no
gossip ; just art.
Then, even thoughts of ambition would be dissolved on her tongue, as she played havoc with his nerve-endings. She
wasn't much of an actress, but by God she was quite a performer. Faultless technique; immaculate timing: she knew
either by instinct or by rehearsal just when to pick up the rhythm and bring the whole scene to a satisfying
conclusion
When she'd finished milking the moment dry, he almost wanted to applaud. The whole cast of Calloway's production
of Twelfth Night knew about the affair, of course. There'd be the occasional snide comm ent passed if actress and
director were bo th late for rehearsals, or if she arrived looking full, and he flushed. He tried to persuade her to
control the cat-with-the-cream look that crept over her face, but she just wasn't that good a deceiver. Which was rich,
considering her profession.
But then La Duv all, as Ed ward insisted o n calling her, didn't need to be a great player, she was fam ous. So wha t if
she spoke Shakespeare like it was Hiawatha, dum de dum de dum de dum? So what if her grasp of psychology was
dub ious, her logic faulty, her projection ina deq uate? So what if she had as m uch sense of poetry as she d id
prop riety? She was a star, and that meant business.
There wa s no taking that aw ay from her: her name was money. The Elysium T heatre publicity announced her claim
to fame in three inch Roman Bold, black on yellow:
"D iane D uvall: star o f The Love Child."
The Love Child. Possibly the worst soap opera to cavort across the screens of the nation in the history of that genre,
two so lid hou rs a wee k of und er-written characters and mind-num bing d ialogue, as a result of which it consistently
drew high ratings, and its performers became, almost overnight, brilliant stars in television's rhinestone heaven.
Glittering there, the brightest of the bright, was Diane D uvall.
Maybe she wasn't born to play the classics, but Jesus was she good box-office. And in this day and age, with theatres
deserted, all that mattered was the numb er of punters on seats.
Calloway had resigned himself to the fact that this would not be the definitive Twelfth Night, but if the production
were successful, and with Diane in the role of Viola it had every chance, and it might open a few doors to him in the
W est End. B esides, working with the ever-adoring, ever-demand ing Miss D. Duvall had its compensations.
Galloway pulled up his serge trousers, and looked down at her. She was giving him that winsome smile of hers, the

one she used in the letter scene. Expression Five in the Duvall repertoire, somewhere between Virginal and
Motherly.
He ackno wled ged the smile with one from his o wn sto ck, a small, loving loo k that passed for genuine at a yard's
distance.
Then he consulted his watch.
"G od, we're late, sweetie."
She licked her lips. Did she really like the taste that much?
"I'd better fix my hair," she said, standing up and glancing in the long mirror beside the shower.
"Y es."
"Are you OK?"
"Couldn't be better," he replied. He kissed her lightly on the nose and left her to her teasing.
On his way to the stage he ducked into the Men's Dressing Room to adjust his clothing, and dowse his burning
cheeks with cold water. Sex always induced a giveaway mo ttling on his face and upp er chest. Ben ding to splash
water on himself Galloway studied his features critically in the mirror over the sink. After thirty-six years of holding
the signs of age at bay, he was beginning to look the part. He was no more the juvenile lead. There was an
indisputable puffiness bene ath his eyes, which w as nothing to d o with sleeplessness an d there were line s too, o n his
forehead, and round his mouth. He didn't look the wunderkind any longer; the secrets of his debauchery were written
all over his face. The excess of sex, booze and ambition, the frustration of aspiring and just missing the main chance
so many times. What would he look like now, he thought bitterly, if he'd been content to be some unenterprising
nobody working in a minor rep, guaranteed a house of ten aficionados every night, and devoted to Brecht? Face as
smooth as a baby's bottom probably, most of the people in the socially-committed theatre had that look. Vacant and
content, poor cows.
"W ell, you pays your money and you takes your choice," he told himself. He took one last look at the haggard
cherub in the m irror, reflecting that, crow's feet or not, women still couldn't resist him, and went out to face the trials
and tribulations of Act III.
On stage there was a heated d eb ate in progress. T he carpenter, his nam e was Jake, had built two hed ges fo r O livia's
garden. T hey still had to be cove red with leaves, but they lo oked quite impressive, running the depth of the stage to
the cyclorama, where the rest of the garden would be painted. None o f this symbolic stuff. A garden was a garden:
green grass, blue sky. That's the way the audience liked it North of Birmingham, and Terry had some sympathy for
their plain tastes.
"T erry, love."
Eddie C unningham had him by the hand and elbow, escorting him into the fray.
"What's the problem?"
"T erry, love, you canno t be serious ab out these fucking (it came trippingly off the to ngue: fucking) hedges. Tell
Uncle Eddie you're not serious before I throw a fit." Eddie pointed towards the offending hedges. "I mean look at
them." As he spoke a thin plume of spittle fizzed in the air.
"W hat's the problem?" T erry asked again.
"Prob lem? Blocking, love, blocking. Think about it. We've rehearsed this whole scene with me bobbing up and
down like a March hare. Up right, down left - but it doesn't work if I haven't got access round the back. And look!
These fucking things are flush with the backd rop."
"W ell they hav e to be, for the illusion, Eddie."
"I can't get round though, T erry. Y ou must see m y point."
He ap pealed to the few others on stage : the carpenters, two techn icians, three actors.
"I mean - there's just not enough time."
"Eddie, we'll re-bloc k."
"O h."
That took the wind o ut of his sails.
"No?"
"U rn."
"I mean it seems easiest, doesn't it?"
"Y es... I just liked ...
"I know."
"Well. Needs must. What about the croquet?"
"W e'll cut that too."
"All that business with the croquet mallets? The bawdy stuff?"

"It'll all have to go. I'm sorry, I have n't thought this through. I wasn't thinking straight."
Eddie flounced.
"T hat's all you ev er do , love, think straight..."
Titters. Terry let it pass. Eddie had a genuine point of criticism; he had failed to consider the problems of the hedgedesign.
"I'm sorry abo ut the business; but there's no way we can ac com mod ate it."
"You won't be cutting anybody else's business, I'm sure," said Eddie. He threw a glance over Galloway's shoulder at
Diane, then headed for the dressing-room. Exit enraged actor, stage left. Calloway made no attempt to stop him. It
would have worsened the situation considerably to spoil his departure. He just breathed out a quiet "oh Jesus', and
dragged a wide hand down o ver his face. Tha t was the fatal flaw of this profession: actors.
"Will somebody fetch him back?" he said.
Silence.
"Where's Ryan?"
The Stage Manager showed his bespectacled face over the offending hedge.
"Sorry?"
"Ryan, love - will you please take a cup of coffee to Eddie and coax him back into the bosom of the family?"
Ryan pulled a face that said: you offended him, you fetch him.
But Gallo way had passed this particular buc k befo re: he was a past master at it. He just stare d at Ryan, defying him
to contradict his request, until the other man dropped his eyes and nodded his acquiescence.
"Sure," he said glumly.
"G ood man."
Ryan cast him an accusatory look, and disappeared in pursuit of Ed Cunningham.
"N o show without Be lch," said Gallowa y, trying to wa rm up the atmosphere a little. Someone grunted: and the sm all
half-circle of onlookers began to disperse. Show over.
"OK, OK ," said Galloway, picking up the pieces, "let's get to work. We'll run through from the top of the scene.
Diane, are you ready?"
"Y es."
"OK. Shall we run it?"
He turned away fro m O livia's garde n and the waiting actors just to ga ther his tho ughts. O nly the stage working lights
were on, the a uditorium was in darkness. It yawned at him insolently, row up on ro w of em pty seats, d efying him to
entertain them. Ah, the loneliness of the long-distance director. There were days in this business when the thought of
life as an accountant seemed a consummation devoutly to be wished, to paraphrase the Prince of Denmark.
In the Gods of the Elysium, somebo dy moved. Galloway looked up from his doubts and stared through the swarthy
air. Had Eddie taken residence on the very back row? No , surely not. For one thing, he hadn't had time to get all the
way up there.
"Eddie?" Galloway ventured, capping his hand over his eyes. "Is that you?"
He could just make the figure out. No, not a figure, figures. Two people, edging their way along the back row,
making for the exit. Whoever it was, it certainly wasn't Eddie.
"That isn't Eddie, is it?" said Galloway, turning back into the fake garden.
"No," someone replied.
It was Edd ie speaking. H e was back on stage, leaning on one of the hedges, cigarette clamped b etween his lips.
"Eddie..."
"It's all right," sa id the actor go od-humo uredly, "do n't grovel. I can't bear to see a pretty man gro vel."
"W e'll see if we can slot the m allet-business in somewhere," said C allowa y, eager to be conc iliatory.
Eddie shook his head, and flicked ash off his cigarette.
"N o need."
"Really -"
"It did n't work too well anyhow."
The Grand Circle doo r creaked a little as it closed b ehind the visitors. G alloway didn't bo ther to look round. They'd
gone, whoever they were.
"There was somebody in the house this afternoon." Hammersmith looked up from the sheets of figures he was
poring over.
"Oh?" his eyebrows were eruptions of wire-thick hair that seemed ambitious beyond their calling. They were raised
high above Hammersmith's tiny eyes in patently fake surprise. He plucked at his bottom lip with nicotine stained
fingers.

"Any idea who it was?"
He plucked on, still staring up at the younger man; undisguised contempt on his face.
"Is it a problem?"
"I just want to know who wa s in look ing at the re hearsal that's all. I think I've go t a perfect right to ask."
"Perfect right," said Hammersmith, nodding slightly and making his lips into a pale bow.
"T here w as talk of somebod y com ing up from the National," said Galloway. " My agents w ere arranging som ething. I
just do n't want som ebo dy coming in without me knowing about it. Especially if they're important."
Hammersmith was already studying the figures again. His voice was tired.
"Terry: if there's someone in from the South Bank to look your opus over, I promise you, you'll be the first to be
informed. All right?"
The inflexion was so bloody rude. So run-along-little-boy. Galloway itched to hit him.
"I don't want people watching rehearsals unless I authorize it, Hammersmith. Hear me? And I want to know who
was in today."
The M anager sighed hea vily.
"B elieve m e, Terry," he said, " I don't know m yself. I suggest you ask Tallulah - she was front of house this
afterno on. If someb ody came in, presumab ly she saw them."
He sighed again.
"All right .. . Terry?"
Calloway left it at that. He had his suspicions about Hammersmith. The man co uldn't give a shit about theatre, he
never failed to make that absolutely plain; he affected an exhausted tone whenever anything but money was
mentioned, as though matters of aesthetics were beneath his notice. And he had a word, loudly administered, for
actors and directors alike: butterflies. One day wond ers. In Hammersmith's world only money was forever, and the
Elysium Theatre sto od o n prim e land, land a wise man co uld turn a tidy profit on if he played his card s right.
Galloway was certain he'd sell off the place tomorrow if he could manoeuvre it. A satellite town like Redditch,
growing as B irmingham grew, did n't need theatres, it needed offices, hypermarkets, warehouses: it need ed, to quote
the councillors, growth through investment in new industry. It also needed prime sites to build that industry upon.
No mere art could survive such pragmatism.
Tallulah was not in the box, nor in the foyer, nor in the Green Room.
Irritated both by Hamm ersmith's incivility and T allulah's disappe aranc e, Ga lloway went back into the aud itorium to
pick up his jacket and go to get drunk. The rehearsal was over and the actors long gone. The bare hedges looked
somewhat small from the back row of the stalls. Maybe they needed an extra few inches. He made a note on the
back of a show b ill he found in his pocket:
Hedges, bigger?
A footfall made him look up, and a figure had appeared on stage. A smooth entrance, up-stage centre, where the
hedges converged. Galloway didn't recognize the man.
"Mr.. Galloway? Mr.. Terence Galloway?"
"Yes?"
The visitor walked dow n stage to where , in an earlier age, the footlights wou ld have bee n, and stood looking out into
the auditorium.
"M y apologies fo r interrup ting your train of tho ught."
"N o problem."
"I wanted a word ."
"With me?"
"If you would ."
Galloway wandered do wn to the front of the stalls, appraising the stranger.
He was dressed in shades of grey from head to foot. A grey worsted suit, grey shoes, a grey cravat. Pisselegant, was
Galloway's first, uncharitable summation. But the man cut an impressive figure nevertheless. His face beneath the
shadow of his brim was difficult to discern.
"Allow me to intro duce myself."
The voice was persuasive, cultured. Ideal for advertisement voice-overs: soap commercials, maybe. After
Hamm ersmith's bad manners, the voice came as a breath of good breeding.
"M y name is Lichfield . Not that I exp ect that m eans m uch to a man of your tender years."
Tender years: well, well. Maybe there was still something of the wunderkind in his face.
"Are you a critic?" Galloway inquired.
The laugh that emanated from bene ath the immaculately-swept brim was ripely ironical.

"In the name of Jesus, no," Lichfield replied.
"I'm sorry, then, you have me at a loss."
"N o need for an apo logy."
"Were you in the house this afternoon?"
Lichfield ignored the question. "I realize you're a busy man, Mr.. Galloway, and I don't want to waste your time.
The theatre is my business, as it is yours. I think we must consider o urselves allies, though we have never m et."
Ah, the great brotherhood. It made Galloway want to spit, the familiar claims of sentiment. When he thought of the
number of so-called allies that had cheerfully stabbed him in the back; and in return the playwrights whose work
he'd smilingly slanged, the actors he'd crushed with a casual quip. Brotherhood be damned, it was dog eat dog, same
as any over-subscribed profession.
"I have," Lichfield was saying, "an abiding interest in the Elysium." There was a curious emphasis on the word
abiding. It sounded positively funereal from Lichfield's lips. Abide with me.
"Oh?"
"Yes, I've spent many happy hours in this theatre, down the years, and frankly it pains me to carry this burden of
news."
"What news?"
"M r. Galloway, I have to inform you that your T welfth N ight will be the last production the Elysium will see."
The statement didn't come as much of a surprise, but it still hurt, and the internal wince must have registered on
Calloway's face.
"Ah.. . so you didn't know. I thought not. They always keep the artists in ignorance don't they? It's a satisfaction the
Apollonians will never relinquish. The accountant's revenge."
"H ammersmith," said Galloway.
"H ammersmith."
"B astard."
"H is clan are neve r to be trusted, b ut then I hardly ne ed to tell you that."
"Are you sure about the closure?"
"Certainly. H e'd do it tomorrow if he could."
"B ut why? I've done Sto ppa rd here, Tennessee W illiams - always played to goo d houses. It doesn't make sense."
"It ma kes ad mirab le financial sense, I'm afraid, and if you think in figure s, as Hamm ersmith doe s, there's no riposte
to simple arithmetic. The Elysium's getting old. We're all getting old. We creak. W e feel our age in our joints: our
instinct is to lie d own and b e gone away."
Gone away: the voice became melod ramatically thin, a whisper of longing.
"How do you know about this?"
"I was, for many years, a trustee of the theatre, and since my retirement I've made it my business to - what's the
phrase? - keep m y ear to the ground. It's difficult, in this day and age , to evo ke the triumph this stage has seen . . ."
His vo ice trailed away, in a reverie. It seem ed true , not an e ffect.
Then, business-like once more: "T his theatre is about to die, M r. Galloway. Y ou will be present at the last rites,
through no fault of your own. I felt you ought to b e warn ed."
"Thank you. I appreciate that. Tell me, were you ever an actor yourself?"
"What makes you think that?"
"T he voice."
"To o rhetorical by half, I know. My curse, I'm afraid. I can scarcely ask for a cup of coffee without sounding like
Lear in the storm."
He laughed, heartily, at his own expense. Galloway began to warm to the fellow. Maybe he was a little archaiclooking, perhap s even slightly absurd, but there was a full-b lood ed ness about his m anner that caught Galloway's
imagination. Lichfield wasn't apologetic about his love of theatre, like so many in the profession, people who trod
the board s as a second -best, their souls sold to the movies.
"I have, I w ill confess, d ab bled in the craft a little," Lichfield confided , "but I just don't have the stamina for it, I'm
afraid. N ow m y wife -"
W ife? G allowa y was surprised Lichfield had a hetero sexual bone in his bo dy.
"- My wife Constantia has played here on a number of occasions, and I may say very successfully. Before the war of
course."
"It's a pity to close the place."
"Indeed. But there are no last act miracles to be performed, I'm afraid. The Elysium will be rubble in six weeks' time,
and there's an end to it. I just wanted you to know that interests other than the crassly commercial are watching over
this closing pro duction. T hink of us as guardian angels. W e wish yo u well, T erenc e, we all wish you w ell."

It was a genuine sentiment, simply stated. G allowa y was tou ched by this ma n's concern, and a little cha stened by it.
It put his own stepping-stone ambitions in an unflattering perspective. Lichfield went on: "We care to see this theatre
end its days in suitable style, then die a good death."
"D amn shame."
"T oo late for reg rets by a long chalk. W e should never have given up D ionysus for Ap ollo."
"What?"
"Sold ourselves to the ac countants, to legitimacy, to the likes of M r.. Hamm ersmith, whose soul, if he has one, must
be the size of my fingernail, and grey as a louse's back. We should have had the courage of our depictions, I think.
Served poetry and lived und er the stars."
Galloway d idn't quite follow the allusions, but he got the genera l drift, and respected the viewp oint.
Off stage left, Diane's voice cut the solemn atmosphere like a plastic knife.
"Terry? Are you there?"
The spell was broken: Galloway hadn't been aware how hypnotic Lichfield's presence was until that other voice
came between them. Listening to him was like being rocked in familiar arms. Lichfield stepped to the edge of the
stage, lowering his voice to a conspiratorial rasp.
"O ne last thing, Terence -"
"Yes?"
"Y our V iola. She lacks, if you'll forgive m y pointing it out, the special qualities required for the role."
Galloway hung fire.
"I know," Lichfield continued, "persona l loyalties prevent honesty in these m atters."
"N o," G allowa y replied , "you're right. But she's popular."
"So was bear-baiting, T erenc e."
A luminous sm ile spread beneath the brim, hanging in the shadow like the grin o f the Cheshire G at.
"I'm only joking," said Lichfield , his rasp a chuc kle now. "B ears can be charm ing."
"T erry, there you are."
Diane appeared , over-dressed as usual, from behind the tabs. There was surely an embarrassing confrontation in the
air. But Lichfield was walking away down the false perspective of the hedges towards the backdrop.
"H ere I am ," said Terry.
"Who are you talking to?"
But Lichfield had exited, as smoothly and as quietly as he had entered. Diane hadn't even seen him go.
"O h, just an angel," said G allowa y.
The first Dress Re hearsal wasn't, all things considered, as bad as Galloway had an ticipated: it was immeasurab ly
worse. Cues were lost, props mislaid, entrances missed; the comic business seemed ill-contrived and laborious; the
performances either hopelessly overwrought or trifling. This was a Twelfth Night that seemed to last a year. Halfway
through the third act G allowa y glanced at his watch, and realized an uncut performance of M acbeth (with interval)
would now be over.
He sat in the stalls with his head buried in his hands, contemplating the work that he still had to do if he was to bring
this production up to scratch. N ot for the first time on this show he felt helpless in the face of the casting pro blems.
Cues could be tightened , prop s rehea rsed w ith, entrances practised until they were engraved on the mem ory. B ut a
bad actor is a bad actor is a bad actor. He could labour till doomsday neatening and sharpening, but he could not
make a silk purse of the sow's ear that was Diane D uvall.
W ith all the skill of an acrobat she contrived to skirt every significance, to ignore every opportunity to move the
audience, to avo id every nuance the p laywright would insist on putting in her way. It was a performance heroic in its
ineptitud e, reducing the delicate cha racterization Galloway had been at pains to create to a single-note whine. T his
Viola was soap-opera pap, less human than the hedges, and about as green.
The critics would slaughter her.
W orse than that, Lichfield would be disappointed. To his considerable surprise the impact of Lichfield's appearance
hadn't dwindled; Galloway couldn't forget his actorly projection, his posing, his rhetoric. It had moved him more
deeply than he was prepared to admit, and the thought of this Twelfth Night, with this Viola, becoming the swansong of Lichfield's beloved Elysium perturbed and emba rrassed him. It seemed somehow ungrateful.
He'd been warned often enough about a director's burdens, long before he became seriously embroiled in the
profession. His dear departed guru at the Actors' Centre, Wellbeloved (he of the glass eye), had told Galloway from
the beginning:
"A director is the loneliest creature on G od 's earth. He knows what's goo d and bad in a show , or he should if he's
worth his salt, and he has to carry that inform ation around with him and keep smiling."

It hadn't seemed so difficult at the time.
"T his job isn't about succeeding," W ellbelo ved used to say, "it's about learning no t to fall on yo ur sod ding fac e."
Go od advice as it turned out. H e cou ld still see W ellbelo ved handing out that wisdo m on a plate, his bald head shiny,
his living eye glittering with cynical delight. No ma n on earth, Galloway had thought, loved theatre with more
passion than W ellbeloved , and surely no man could have bee n more scathing about its pretensions.
It was almost one in the morning by the time they'd finished the wretched run-through, gone through the notes, and
separated, glum and mutually rese ntful, into the night. Gallowa y wanted none of their co mpa ny tonigh t:
No late drinking in one or others' digs, no mutual ego-massage. He had a cloud of gloom all to himself, and neither
wine, women nor song would disperse it. He could barely bring himself to look Diane in the face. His notes to her,
broadcast in front of the rest of the cast, had been acidic. Not that it would do much good.
In the foyer, he met Tallulah, still spry though it was long after an old lady's bedtime.
"Are yo u locking up tonight?" he asked her, mo re for something to say than because he was actually curious.
"I always lock up," she said. She was well over seventy: too old for her job in the box office, and too tenacious to be
easily removed. But then that was all academic now, wasn't it? He wond ered what her response would be when she
heard the news of the closure. It would probably break her brittle heart. Hadn't Hammersmith once told him Tallulah
had been at the theatre since she was a girl of fifteen?
"W ell, goodnight Tallulah."
She gave him a tiny nod, as always. Then she reached out and took Galloway's arm.
"Yes?"
"M r.. Lichfield..." she began.
"What about Mr.. Lichfield?"
"H e didn't like the rehe arsal."
"He was in tonight?"
"O h yes," she replied, as tho ugh G allowa y was an imbecile for thinking otherwise, "of co urse he was in."
"I didn't see him ."
"W ell... no matter. H e wasn't very pleased."
Galloway tried to so und indifferent.
"It can't be help ed."
"Y our show is ve ry close to his hea rt."
"I rea lize that," said G allowa y, avoid ing T allulah's acc using looks. H e had quite enough to keep him awake tonight,
without her disappointed tones ringing in his ears.
He loosed his arm, and made for the door. T allulah made no attempt to stop him. She just said: "Yo u should have
seen C onstantia."
Constantia? Where had he heard that name? Of course, Lichfield's wife.
"She was a wond erful V iola."
He was too tired for this m oo ning over dead actresses; she was dead w asn't she? He had said she was dead , had n't
he?
"W onderful," said Tallulah again.
"G ood night, T allulah. I'll see you tomorro w."
The old crone didn't answer. If she was o ffended by his brusq ue ma nner, the n so be it. He left her to her complaints
and faced the street.
It was late No vember, and chilly. No b alm in the night air, just the smell of tar from a freshly laid road , and grit in
the wind.
Galloway pulled his jacket collar up around the back of his neck, and hurried off to the questionable refuge of
Murphy's Bed and B reakfast.
In the foyer Tallulah turned her back on the cold and dark of the outside world, and shuffled back into the temple of
dreams. It smelt so weary now: stale with use and age, like her own body. It was time to let natural processes take
their toll; there was no point in letting things run beyond their allotted span. That was as true of buildings as of
peo ple. B ut the Elysium had to d ie as it had lived, in glo ry.
Respe ctfully, she drew back the red curtains that covered the portraits in the corrido r that led from foyer to stalls.
Barrymore, Irving: great names and great actors. Stained and faded pictures perhaps, but the memories were as sharp
and as refreshing as sp ring water. And in pride of place, the last of the line to be unve iled, a portrait of Constantia
Lichfield. A face of transcendent beauty; a bone structure to make an anatomist weep.
She had been far too yo ung for Lichfield of co urse, and that ha d been pa rt of the tragedy of it. Lichfield the Sve ngali,
a man twice her age, had b een capable of giving his b rilliant bea uty everything she desired; fame, money,

com panionship . Everything but the gift she m ost req uired: life itself.
She'd died before she was yet twenty, a cancer in the breast. T aken so sudd enly it was still d ifficult to believe she'd
gone.
Tears brimme d in T allulah's eyes a s she rem emb ered that lost and wasted ge nius. So many p arts Co nstantia would
have illuminated had she be en spared. Cleopatra, Hed da, R osalind , Electra...
But it wasn't to be. She'd gone, extinguished like a candle in a hurricane, and for those who were left behind life was
a slow and joyless m arch through a cold land . There we re mo rnings now, stirring to another dawn, when she wo uld
turn over and pray to die in her sleep.
The tears were quite blinding her now, she was awash. And oh dear, there was somebody behind her, probably M r.
Galloway back for something, and here was she, sobbing fit to burst, behaving like the silly old woman she knew he
thought her to be. A young man like him, what did he understand about the pain of the years, the deep ache of
irretrievable loss? T hat wouldn't come to him for a while yet. Soo ner than he thought, but a while nevertheless.
"Tallie," somebody said.
She knew who it was. Richard Walden Lichfield. She turned round and he was standing no more than six feet from
her, as fine a figure of a man as ever she remembered him to be. He must be twenty years older than she was, but
age didn't seem to bow him.
She felt ashamed of her tears.
"T allie," he said kindly, "I know it's a little late, but I felt you'd surely want to say hello."
"Hello?"
The tears were clearing, and now she saw Lichfield's companion, standing a respectful foot or two behind him,
partially obscured. The figure steppe d out of Lichfield's shadow and there was a lumino us, fine-bo ned beau ty
Tallulah recognized as easily as her own reflection. Time broke in pieces, and reason deserted the world. Longed-for
faces were suddenly back to fill the empty nights, and offer fresh hope to a life grown weary. W hy should she argue
with the evidence o f her eyes?
It was Constantia, the radiant Constantia, who was looping her arm through Lichfield's and nodding gravely at
Tallulah in greeting.
Dear, dead Constantia.
The rehearsal wa s called for nine-thirty the following morning. Diane D uvall made an entra nce he r customary half
hour late. She looked as though she ha dn't slept all night.
"Sorry I'm late," she said, her open vowels oozing down the aisle towards the stage.
Galloway was in no mood for foot-kissing.
"W e've got an opening to morrow," he snappe d, "and everybo dy's been kept waiting by you."
"Oh really?" she fluttered, trying to be devastating. It was too early in the morning, and the effect fell on stony
ground.
"O K, we're going from the top," Gallowa y announced, "and everybo dy please have your cop ies and a pen. I've got a
list of cuts here and I want them rehearsed in by lunchtime. Ryan, have you got the prompt copy?"
There was a hurried exchange with the ASM and an ap ologetic negative from Ryan.
"W ell get it. And I don 't want any co mpla ints from anyone, it's too late in the day. Last night's run was a wake, not a
performance. The cues took forever; the business was ragged. I'm going to cut, and it's not going to be very
palatable."
It wasn't. The complaints came, warn ing or no, the argum ents, the comp romises, the sour faces and muttered insults.
Galloway would have rather been hanging by his toes from a trapeze than manoeuvring fourteen highly-strung
people through a play two-thirds of them scarcely understood, and the other third couldn't give a monkey's about. It
was nerve-wracking.
It was made worse beca use all the time he had the prickly sense of being watched, though the aud itorium was em pty
from God s to front stalls. Maybe Lichfield had a spy hole somewhere, he thought, then condemned the idea as the
first signs of budding paranoia.
At last, lunch.
Galloway knew where he'd find Diane, and he was p repared for the scene he had to play with her. Accusations,
tears, rea ssurance, tears again, re conciliation. Standa rd format.
He knocked on the Star's door.
"Who is it?"
W as she crying already, or talking through a glass of something comforting.
"It's me."

"O h."
"Can I come in?"
"Y es."
She had a b ottle of vodka, goo d vodka, and a glass. N o tears as yet.
"I'm useless, aren't I?" she said, almost as soon as he'd closed the door. Her eyes begged for contradiction.
"Don't be silly," he hedged.
"I could never get the hang of Shakespeare," she pouted, as though it were the Bard's fault. "All those bloody
words." The squall was on the horizon, he could see it mustering.
"It's all right," he lied, putting his arm around her. "Y ou just need a little time."
Her face clouded.
"W e open tomorrow," she said flatly. The point was difficult to refute.
"They'll tear me apart, won't they?"
He wanted to say no, but his tongue had a fit of honesty. "Yes. Unless -"
"I'll never work again, will I? Harry talked me into this, that damn half-witted Jew: good for my reputation, he said.
Bound to give me a bit more clout, he said. What does he know? Takes his ten bloody per cent and leaves me
holding the baby. I'm the one who looks the damn fool aren't I?"
At the thought of looking a fool, the storm broke. No light shower this: it was a cloudburst or nothing. He did what
he could, but it was difficult. She was sobbing so loudly his pearls of wisdom were drowned o ut. So he kissed her a
little, as any decent director was bound to do, and (miracle upon miracle) that seemed to do the trick. He applied the
technique with a little more gusto, his hands straying to her breasts, ferreting under her blouse for her nipples and
teasing them between thumb and forefinger.
It worked wond ers. T here were hints of sun between the clo uds no w; she sniffed and unbuckled his belt, letting his
heat dry out the last of the rain. His fingers were finding the lacy edge of her panties, and she was sighing as he
investigated her, gently but not too gently, insistent but never too insistent. Somewhere along the line she knocked
over the vodka bottle but neither of them cared to stop and right it, so it sloshed on to the floor off the edge of the
table, counter p ointing her instructions, his gasps.
Then the bloody door opened, and a draught blew up between them, cooling the point at issue.
Galloway almost turned round, then realized he w as unb uckled , and stared instead into the m irror behind Diane to
see the intruder's face. It was Lichfield. He was looking straight at Galloway, his face impassive.
"I'm sorry, I shou ld have knocked ."
His vo ice was as smo oth as w hipped cream, betraying nary a tremo r of embarrassme nt. Galloway wedged him self
away, buckled up his belt and turned to Lichfield, silently cursing his burning cheeks.
"Yes.. . it would have been polite," he said.
"Again, my apologies. I wanted a word with-" his eyes, so deep-set they were unfathomable, were on Diane "- your
star," he said.
Galloway could practically feel D iane's ego expa nd at the word . The app roach confound ed him : had L ichfield
undergo ne a volte-face? W as he com ing here, the repentant admirer, to knee l at the feet of greatness?
"I would appreciate a word with the lady in private, if that were possible," the mellow voice went on.
"W ell, we were just -"
"Of course," Diane interrupted. "Just allow me a moment, would you?"
She was immediately on top of the situation, tears forgotten.
"I'll be just outside," said Lichfield, already taking his leave.
Before he had closed the do or behind him D iane wa s in front of the mirro r, tissue-wrappe d finger skirting her eye to
divert a rivulet of mascara.
"Well," she was cooing, "how lovely to have a well-wisher. Do you know who he is?"
"H is name's Lichfield," Galloway to ld her. " He used to be a trustee of the theatre."
"M aybe he wants to offer me so mething."
"I doub t it."
"Oh don't be such a drag Terence," she snarled. "You just can't bear to have anyone else get any attention, can you?"
"M y mistake."
She peered at her eyes.
"How do I look?" she asked.
"Fine."
"I'm sorry abo ut befo re."
"Before?"
"Y ou know."

"O h... yes."
"I'll see you in the pub, eh?"
He was summarily dismissed apparently, his function as lover or confidante no longer required.
In the chilly corridor outside the dressing room Lichfield was waiting patiently. Though the lights were better here
than on the ill-lit stage, and he was closer now than he'd been the night before, Galloway could still not quite make
out the face under the wide brim. There was something - what was the idea buzzing in his head? - something
artificial about Lichfield's features. The flesh o f his face didn't move as interlocking system of muscle and tend on, it
was too stiff, too pink, almost like scar-tissue.
"She's not quite ready," Galloway told him.
"She's a lovely woman," Lichfield purred.
"Y es."
"I don't blam e you..."
"U m."
"She's no actress though."
"Y ou're not going to interfere are you, Lichfield? I w on't let you."
"Perish the thought."
The voyeuristic pleasure Lichfield had p lainly taken in his emb arrassme nt ma de Galloway less respectful than he'd
been.
"I wo n't have you upse tting her -"
"M y interests are your interests, T erenc e. All I want to do is see this production prosper, b elieve m e. Am I likely,
unde r those circum stances, to alarm your Leading Lady? I'll be as meek as a lamb, Terence ."
"W hateve r you are," came the testy rep ly, "you're no lamb."
The smile appe ared again o n Lichfield's face, the tissue round his mouth bare ly stretching to accomm oda te his
expression.
Galloway re tired to the pub with that pred atory sickle of teeth fixed in his mind , anxious for no reason he co uld
focus upon.
In the mirrored cell of her dressing-room Diane Duvall was just about ready to play her scene.
"You may come in now, Mr. Lichfield," she announced. He was in the doorway before the last syllable of his name
had died on her lips.
"Miss Duvall," he bowed slightly in deference to her. She smiled; so courteous. "Will you please forgive my
blundering in earlier on?"
She looked coy; it always melted men.
"M r.. Galloway-" she began.
"A very insisten t young man, I think."
"Y es."
"Not above pressing his attentions on his Leading Lady, perhaps?"
She frowned a little, a dancing pucker where the plucked arches of her brows converged.
"I'm afraid so."
"M ost unp rofessio nal of him ," Lichfield said. "But forgive me - an understandable ardour."
She m oved upstage o f him, towards the lights of her mirror, and turne d, kno wing they would back -light her hair
more flatteringly.
"Well, Mr.. Lichfield, what can I do for you?"
"This is frankly a delicate matter," said Lichfield. "The bitter fact is - how shall I put this? - your talents are not
ideally suited to this production. Y our style lacks delicacy."
There was a silence for two beats. She sniffed, thought about the inference of the remark, and then moved out of
centre-stage towards the door. She didn't like the way this scene had begun. She was expecting an admirer, and
instead she had a critic on her hand s.
"Get out!" she said, her voice like slate.
"M iss Duvall -"
"Y ou heard m e."
"Yo u're not comfortable as Viola, are you?" Lichfield continued, as though the star had said nothing.
"No ne of your bloody business," she spat back.
"But it is. I saw the rehearsals. You were bland, unpersuasive. The comedy is flat, the reunion scene -it should break
our hearts - is lead en."
"I don't need your o pinion, thank you."

"Y ou have no style -"
"Piss off."
"N o presence and no style. I'm sure on the televisio n you are rad iance itself, but the stage req uires a sp ecial truth, a
soulfulne ss you, fran kly, lack."
The scene was hotting up . She wanted to hit him, b ut she co uldn't find the proper m otivation. She could n't take this
faded poseur seriously. He was more musical comedy than melodrama, with his neat grey gloves, and his neat grey
cravat. Stupid, waspish queen, what did he know about acting?
"Get out before I call the Stage Manager," she said, but he stepped between her and the doo r.
A rape scene? Was that what they were playing? Had he got the hots for her? God forbid.
"M y wife," he was saying, "has played Viola -"
"G ood for her."
"- and she feels sh e cou ld bre athe a little m ore life into the role than you."
"W e open tom orro w." she found herself replying, as though defending her presence. W hy the hell was she trying to
reaso n with him; barging in here and m aking these terrible rem arks. M aybe beca use she was just a little afraid. H is
breath, close to her now, smelt of expensive chocolate.
"She knows the ro le by heart."
"The part's mine. And I'm doing it. I'm doing it even if I'm the worst Viola in theatrical history, all right?"
She was trying to keep her comp osure, but it was difficult. Som ething about him ma de her nervous. It wasn't
violence she feared from him: but she feared something.
"I'm afraid I have already promise d the p art to my wife."
"W hat?" she goggled at his arrogance.
"And C onstantia will play the role."
She laughed at the name . Maybe this was high com edy after all. Som ething fro m Sheridan or W ilde, arch, catty
stuff. But he spoke with such absolute certainty. Constantia will play the role; as if it was all cut and dried.
"I'm not discussing this any longer, Buster, so if your wife wants to play Viola she'll have to do it in the fucking
street. All right?"
"She opens tom orro w."
"Are you deaf, or stupid, or both?"
Contro l, an inner voice told her, you're overplaying, losing your grip o n the scene. W hatever scene this is.
He stepped toward s her, and the m irror lights caugh t the face b eneath the brim full on. S he had n't looked carefully
enough when he first made his appearance: now she saw the deeply-etched lines, the gougings around his eyes and
his mouth. It wasn't flesh, she was sure of it. He was wearing latex appliances, and they were badly glued in place.
Her hand all but twitched with the desire to snatch at it and uncover his real face.
Of course. That was it. The scene she was playing: the Unmasking.
"Let's see what you look like," she said, and her hand was at his cheek before he could stop her, his smile spreading
wider as she attacked. This is what he wants, she thought, but it was too late for regrets or apologies. Her fingertips
had found the line of the mask at the edge of his eye-socket, and curled round to take a better hold. She yanked.
The thin veil of latex came away, and his true physiognomy was exposed for the world to see. Diane tried to back
away, but his hand was in her hair. All she could do was look up into that all-but fleshless face. A few withered
strands of muscle curled here and there, and a hint of a beard hung from a leathery flap at his throat, but all living
tissue had long since decayed. Most of his face was simply bone: stained and worn.
"I was not," said the skull, "em balm ed. U nlike Constantia."
The explanation escaped D iane. She made no sound of protest, which the scene would surely have justified. All she
could summon was a whimper as his hand-hold tightened, and he hauled her head back.
"W e must make a choice, sooner or later," said Lichfield, his breath smelling less like chocolate than profound
putrescence, "between serving ourselves and serving our art."
She didn't quite understand.
"The dead must choose more carefully than the living. We cannot waste our breath, if you'll excuse the phrase, on
less than the purest delights. You don't want art, I think. Do you?"
She shook her head, hoping to God that was the expected response.
"Y ou want the life of the bod y, not the life o f the imagination. A nd you may have it."
"T hank... you."
"If you want it eno ugh, you may have it."
Suddenly his hand, which had been pulling on her hair so painfully, was cupped behind her head, and bringing her
lips up to meet his. She would have screamed then, as his rotting mouth fastened itself on to hers, but his greeting
was so insistent it quite took her breath away.

Ryan found Diane on the floor of her dressing-room a few minutes before two. It was difficult to work out what had
happened. There was no sign of a wound of any kind on her head or body, nor was she quite dead. She seemed to be
in a coma of some kind. She had perhaps slipped, and struck her head as she fell. Whatever the cause, she was out
for the count.
They were hours away from a Final Dress Rehearsal and Viola was in an ambulance, being taken into Intensive
Care.
"T he sooner they knock this place down, the b etter," said Ha mmersm ith. He'd been d rinking during office hours,
something G alloway had never seen him do be fore. The whisky bottle stood on his desk beside a half-full glass.
There were glass-marks ringing his accounts, and his hand had a bad d ose of the shakes.
"What's the news from the hospital?"
"She's a beautiful woman," he said, staring at the glass. Galloway could have swo rn he was on the verge of tears.
"Hammersmith? How is she?"
"She's in a com a. But her co ndition is stable."
"T hat's something, I suppo se."
Hamm ersmith stared up at Galloway, his erupting brows knitted in anger.
"You runt," he said, "you were screwing her, weren't you? Fancy yourself like that, don't you? Well, let me tell you
something, D iane D uvall is wo rth a do zen o f you. A d ozen!"
"Is that why you let this last production go on, Ham mersmith? Because you'd seen her, and you wanted to get your
hot little hands on her?"
"You wouldn't understand. You've got your brain in your pants." He seemed genuinely offended by the interpretation
Galloway had put on his a dmiration for M iss Duvall.
"All right, have it your way. W e still have no V iola."
"T hat's why I'm cancelling," said Hammersmith, slowing dow n to savour the mom ent.
It had to com e. W ithout D iane D uvall, there would be no T welfth N ight; and mayb e it was better that way.
A knock on the doo r.
"W ho the fuck's that?" said Hammersmith softly. "C ome ."
It was Lichfield. Galloway was almost glad to see that strange, scarred face. Tho ugh he had a lot of questions to ask
of Lichfield, about the state he'd left Diane in, about their conversation together, it wasn't an interview he was
willing to conduct in front of Hamme rsmith. Besides, any half-formed accusations he might have had were
countered by the m an's presence here. If Lichfield had attempted violence on D iane, for whatev er reason, was it
likely that he would com e bac k so so on, so smilingly?
"Who are you?" Hammersmith demanded.
"Richard W alden Lichfield ."
"I'm no ne the wiser."
"I used to b e a trustee of the E lysium."
"O h."
"I make it my business -, "What do you want?" Hammersmith broke in, irritated by Lichfield's poise.
"I hear the production is in jeopardy," Lichfield replied, unruffled.
"No jeop ardy," said H amme rsmith, allowing himself a twitch at the corner of his mouth. "N o jeop ardy at all, because
there's no show. It's been ca ncelled ."
"O h?" Lichfield looked at G allowa y.
"Is this with your consent?" he asked.
"He has no say in the matter; I have sole right of cancellation if circumstances dictate it; it's in his contract. The
theatre is closed as of today: it will not reopen."
"Yes it will," said Lichfield.
"W hat?" Hammersmith stood up behind his desk, and Galloway realized he'd never seen the man standing before.
He was very short.
"We will play Twelfth Night as advertised," Lichfield purred. "My wife has kindly agreed to understudy the part of
Viola in plac e of M iss Duvall."
Hammersmith laughe d, a co arse, butcher's laugh. It died on his lips however, as the office was suffused with
lavender, and Constantia Lichfield made her entrance, shimmering in silk and fur. She looked as perfect as the day
she died: even Hammersmith held his breath and his silence at the sight of her.
"Our new Viola," Lichfield announced.
After a mom ent Hamm ersmith found his voice. "T his wom an can't step in at half a day's notice."
"W hy not?" said Galloway, not taking his eyes off the woman. Lichfield was a lucky man; Constantia was an

extraordinary beauty. He scarcely dared draw breath in her presence for fear she'd vanish.
Then she spoke. T he lines were from Act V, Scene I:
"If nothing lets to make us hap py bo th
But this my masculine usurp'd attire,
Do not embrace me till each circumstance
Of place, time, fortune, do cohere and jump
That I am Viola."
The voice was light and musical, but it seemed to resound in her body, filling each phrase with an undercurrent of
suppressed passion.
And that face. It was wonderfully alive, the features p laying the story of her speech with delicate econom y.
She was enchanting.
"I'm sorry," said Hammersmith, "but there are rules and regulations about this sort of thing. Is she Equity?"
"No," said Lichfield.
"W ell you see, it's impossible. T he unio n strictly preclude s this kind o f thing. They'd flay us alive."
"W hat's it to you, Hamme rsmith?" said Galloway. "What the fuck do you care? You'll never need set foot in a
theatre again o nce this p lace is demo lished."
"M y wife has watched the re hearsals. She is word perfect."
"It could be magic," said Galloway, his enthusiasm firing up with every moment he looked at Constantia.
"You're risking the Union, Galloway," Hammersmith chided.
"I'll take that risk ."
"As you say, it's nothing to m e. But if a little bird was to tell them, you'd have e gg on your face."
"H ammersmith: give her a chance. G ive all of us a chan ce. If Equity blacks me, that's my loo k-out." Hammersmith
sat down again.
"N obo dy'll come, you know that, don't you? D iane D uvall was a star; they w ould have sat through your turgid
production to see her, Galloway. But an unknown... Well, it's your funeral. Go ahead and do it, I wash my hands of
the who le thing. It's on yo ur head G allowa y, remembe r that. I hope they flay you for it."
"T hank you," said Lichfield. " Most kind ." Hamm ersmith began to rearrange his desk, to give mo re pro minence to
the bottle and the glass. The interview was over: he wasn't interested in these butterifies any longer.
"G o away," he said. "Just go away."
"I have one or two requests to make," Lichfield told Galloway as they left the office. "Alterations to the production
which would enhan ce my wife's performance."
"What are they?"
"For Constantia's comfort, I would ask that the lighting levels be taken down substantially. She's simply not
accustome d to p erform ing und er such hot, bright lights."
"V ery well."
"I'd also request that we install a row of footlights."
"Footlights?"
"An odd req uirement, I realize, but she feels m uch ha ppier with footlights."
"T hey tend to dazzle the actors," said Galloway. " It become s difficult to see the audienc e."
"N evertheless... I have to stipulate their installation."
"O K."
"Thirdly - I would ask that all scenes involving kissing, embracing or otherwise touching Constantia be re-directed
to rem ove every instance of physical contact whatsoever."
"Everything?"
"Everything ."
"For God's sake why?"
"M y wife needs no business to dramatize the working of the heart, T erenc e."
That curious intonation o n the wo rd "heart" . W orking of the heart.
Galloway caught Constantia's eye for the merest of moments. It was like being blessed.
"Shall we introduce our new Viola to the company?" Lichfield suggested.
"Why not?"
The trio we nt into the theatre.
The re-arranging of the blocking and the business to exclude any physical contact was simple. And though the rest of
the cast were initially wary of their new colleague, her unaffected manner and her natural grace soon had them at her
feet. Besides, her presence meant that the show would go on.
At six, Galloway called a break, announcing that they'd begin the Dress at eight, and telling them to go out and enjoy

themselves for an hour or so. The com pany went their ways, buzzing with a new-found enthusiasm for the
production. W hat had looked like a shambles half a day earlier now seemed to be shaping up quite well. There were
a thousand things to be sniped at, of course: technical shortco mings, costume s that fitted bad ly, directorial foibles.
All par for the course. In fact, the actors were happier than they'd been in a good while. Even Ed Cunningham was
not above passing a compliment or two.
Lichfield found Tallulah in the Green Room, tidying.
"T onight. . "Ye s, sir."
"Y ou must not b e afraid ."
"I'm no t afraid," Tallulah rep lied. W hat a tho ught. As if-"
"T here m ay be some pain, which I regret. Fo r you, ind eed for all of us."
"I understand."
"Of course you do. Yo u love the theatre as I love it: you know the paradox of this profession. To play life. ah,
Tallulah, to play life... what a curious thing it is. Sometimes I wonder, you know, how long I can keep up the
illusion."
"It's a wonderful performance," she said.
"Do you think so? Do you really think so?" He was encouraged by her favourable review. It was so gaffing, to have
to pretend all the time; to fake the flesh, the breath, the look of life. Grateful for Tallulah's opinion, he reached for
her.
"Would you like to die, Tallulah?"
"Does it hurt?"
"Scarcely at all."
"It wo uld make m e very happ y."
"And so it should."
His mouth covered her mouth, and she was dead in less than a minute, conceding happily to his inquiring tongue. He
laid her out on the threadb are co uch an d locked the do or of the Green R oom with her o wn key. She'd cool easily in
the chill of the room, and be up and about again by the time the audience arrived.
At six-fifteen D iane D uvall go t out of a taxi at the fro nt of the E lysium. It was well dark, a wind y No vember night,
but she felt fine; nothing could depress tonight. Not the dark, not the cold.
Unseen, she made her way past the posters that bore her face and name, and through the empty auditorium to her
dressing-room. There, smoking his way through a pack of cigarettes, she found the object of her affection.
"T erry."
She posed in the doorway for a moment, letting the fact of her reappearance sink in. He went quite white at the sight
of her, so she pouted a little. It wasn't easy to pout. There was a stiffness in the muscles of her face but she carried
off the effect to her satisfaction.
Galloway was lost for words. Diane looked ill, no two ways about it, and if she'd left the hospital to take up her part
in the Dress Rehearsal he was going to have to convince her otherwise. She was wearing no make-up, and her ashblonde hair needed a wash.
"W hat are you doing here?" he asked, as she closed the door behind her.
"Unfinished business," she said.
"Listen.. . I've got something to tell you . .
God, this was going to be messy. "We've found a replacement, in the show." She looked at him blankly. He hurried
on, tripping over his own words, "We thought you were out of commission, I mean, not permanently, but, you know,
for the o pening at least. . ."
"Don't worry," she said. His jaw dropped a little. "Don't worry?" "What's it to me?"
"You said you came b ack to finish -," He stop ped. She was unbu ttoning the top of her d ress.
She's not serious, he thought, she can't be serious. Sex? Now?
"I've done a lot of thinking in the last few ho urs," she said a s she shim mied the crum pled dress o ver her hips, let it
fall, and stepped out of it. She was wearing a white bra, which she tried, unsuccessfully, to unhook. "I've decided I
don't care about the theatre. Help me, will you?"
She turned round and presented her back to him. Automatically he unhooked the bra, not really analysing whether he
wanted this or not. It seemed to be a fait accompli. She'd come back to finish what they'd been interrupted doing,
simple as that. And despite the bizarre noises she was making in the back of her throat, and the glassy look in her
eyes, she was still an attractive woman. She turned again, and Galloway stared at the fullness of her breasts, paler
than he'd remembered them, but lovely. His trousers were becoming uncomfortably tight, and her performance was

only worsening his situation, the way she was grinding her hips like the rawest of Soho strippers, running her hands
between her legs.
"D on't worry abo ut me," she said . "I've ma de up my mind. All I really want. . ."
She put her hands, so recently at her groin, on his face. They were icy cold.
"All I really want is you. I can't have sex and the stage. There co mes a time in everyone's life when d ecision s have to
be m ade."
She licked her lips. T here w as no film of mo isture left on her mouth when he r tongue had passed over it.
"T he acciden t made me think, made m e analyse what it is I really care about. And frankly -" S he was unbu ckling his
belt. "- I d on't give a shit -"
Now the zip.
"- about this, or any other fucking play."
His trousers fell down.
"- I'll show yo u what I care about."
She reached into his briefs, and clasped him. H er cold hand som ehow made the touch sexier. H e laughed, clo sing his
eyes as sh e pulled his briefs down to the midd le of his thigh and knelt at his feet.
She was as expert as ever, her throat open like a drain. Her mouth was somewhat drier than usual, her tongue
scouring him, but the sensations drove him wild. It was so good, he scarcely noticed the ease with which she
devoured him, taking him deeper than she'd ever managed previously, using every trick she knew to goad him higher
and higher. Slow and deep, then picking up speed until he almost came, then slowing again until the need passed. He
was co mpletely at her m ercy.
He opened his eyes to watch her at work. She was skewering herself upon him, face in rapture.
"G od," he gasped , "T hat is so good . Oh yes, oh yes."
Her face didn 't even flicker in respon se to his words, she just continued to w ork at him soundlessly. She wasn't
making her usual noises, the small grunts of satisfaction, the heavy breathing through the nose . She just ate his flesh
in absolute silence.
He held his breath a moment, while an idea was born in his belly. The bobbing head bobbed on, eyes closed, lips
clamped around his m emb er, utterly engrossed. H alf a minute passed; a m inute; a minute and a half. And now his
belly was full of terrors.
She w asn't breathing. She was giving this matchless blow -job beca use she wasn't stopping, even for a mo ment, to
inhale or exhale.
Calloway felt his bod y go rigid, while his erection wilted in her throat. She didn't falter in her labour; the relentless
pum ping continued at his groin even as his mind forme d the unthinkable tho ught:
She's dead.
She has me in her mouth, in her cold mouth, and she's dead. That's why she'd come ba ck, got up off her mortuary
slab and come back. She was eager to finish what she'd started, no longer caring about the play, or her usurper. It
was this act she va lued, this act alone. She'd chosen to p erform it for eternity.
Galloway could do nothing with the realization but stare down like a damn fool while this corpse gave him head.
Then it seemed she sensed his horror. She opened her eyes and looked up at him. How could he ever have mistaken
that dead stare for life? G ently, she withdrew his shrunken m anhoo d from b etween her lips.
"W hat is it?" she asked, her fluting voice still affecting life.
"Y ou. . . you're not. . . breathing."
Her face fell. She let him go.
"Oh darling," she said, letting all pretence to life disappear, "I'm not so good at playing the part, am I?"
Her voice was a ghost's voice: thin, forlorn. Her skin, which he had thought so flatteringly pale was, on second view,
a waxen white.
"You are dead?" he said.
"I'm afraid so. Two hours ago: in my sleep. But I had to come, Terry; so much unfinished business. I made my
choice. You should be flattered. You are flattered, aren't you?"
She sto od up and reached into her handbag, which she'd left beside the mirror. G allowa y looked at the door, trying to
make his limbs work, but they were inert. Besides, he had his trousers round his ankles. Two steps and he'd fall flat
on his face.
She turned back on him , with som ething silve r and sharp in her hand. T ry as he m ight, he co uldn't get a fo cus on it.
But whatever it was, she meant it for him.
Since the building of the new Crematorium in 1934, one humiliation had come after another for the cemetery. The

tomb s had been raided for lead co ffin-linings, the stones overturned an d smashed ; it was fouled by d ogs and graffiti.
Very few mourners now cam e to tend the graves. The gene rations had d windled, and the sma ll numb er of peop le
who might still have had a loved one buried there were too infirm to risk the throttled walkways, o r too tender to
bear looking at such vandalism.
It had not always been so. There were illustrious and influential families interred behind the marble faades of the
Victorian mausoleums. Founder fathers, local industrialists and dignitaries, any and all who had done the town proud
by their efforts. The bo dy of the actress Constantia Lichfield had been buried here ("Until the Day Break and the
Shad ows F lee Aw ay"), tho ugh her grave was alm ost uniq ue in the attention some secret adm irer still paid to it.
Nobody was watching that night, it was too bitter for lovers. Nobody saw Charlotte Hancock open the door of her
sepulchre, with the beating wings of pigeons applauding her vigour as she shambled out to meet the moon. Her
husband Gerard was with her, he less fresh than she, having been dead thirteen years longer. Joseph Jardine, en
famille, was not far behind the Hancocks, as was Marriott Fletcher, and Anne Snell, and the Peacock B rothers; the
list went on and o n. In one corner, Alfred C rawshaw (C aptain in the 17 th Lancers), was help ing his lovely wife
Emma fro m the ro t of their bed. E verywh ere faces pressed at the crac ks of the tomb lids - was that not K ezia
Reynolds w ith her child, who 'd lived just a day, in her arm s? and M artin van de Linde (the M emo ry of the Just is
Blessed) whose wife had never been found; Rosa and Selina Goldfinch: upstanding women both; and Thomas
Jerrey, and -T oo m any nam es to mention. To o ma ny states of decay to describe. Sufficient to say they ro se: their
burial finery fly born, their faces stripped of all but the foundation of beauty. Still they came, swinging open the back
gate of the cemetery and threading their way across the wasteland towards the Elysium. In the distance, the sound of
traffic. Above, a jet roared in to land. One of the Peacock b rothers, staring up at the winking giant as it passed over,
missed his footing and fell on his face, shattering his jaw . They picked him up fon dly, and escorted him on his way.
There was no ha rm done; and wha t would a R esurrection be without a few laughs?
So the show went on.
"If music be the food of love, play on, G ive me excess of it; that, surfeiting, The app etite may sicken a nd so die -"
Galloway could not be found at Curtain; but Ryan had instructions from Hamm ersmith (through the ubiquitous Mr.
Lichfield) to take the show up with or without the Director.
"H e'll be upstairs, in the G ods," said Lichfield . "In fact, I think I can see him from here."
"Is he smiling?" asked Eddie.
"G rinning fro m ear to ear."
"T hen he 's pissed."
The actors laughed. There was a good deal of laughter that night. The show was running smoothly, and though they
couldn't see the audience over the glare of the newly-installed footlights they could feel the waves of love and
delight pouring out of the auditorium. The actors were coming off stage elated.
"They're all sitting in the Gods," said Eddie, "but your friends, Mr. Lichfield, do an old ham good. They're quiet of
course, but such big smiles o n their faces."
Act I, Scene II; and the first entrance of Constantia Lichfield as Viola was met with spontaneous applause. Such
applause. Like the hollow roll of snare drums, like the brittle beating of a thousand sticks on a thousand stretched
skins. Lavish, wanton applause.
And, my God, she rose to the occasion. She began the play as she meant to go on, giving her whole heart to the role,
not needing physicality to communicate the depth of her feelings, but speaking the poetry with such intelligence and
passion the merest flutter of her hand was worth more than a hundred grander gestures. After that first scene her
every entrance was met with the same applause from the audience, followed by almost reverential silence.
Backstage, a kind of buoyant confidence had set in. The whole company sniffed the success; a success which had
been snatched miraculously from the jaws of disaster.
There again! Applause! Applause!
In his office, Hammersmith dimly registered the brittle din of adulation through a haze of booze.
He was in the act of pouring his eighth drink when the door opened. He glanced up for a moment and registered that
the visitor was that upstart Calloway. Come to gloat I daresay, Hammersmith thought, come to tell me how wrong I
was.
"What do you want?"
The punk didn't answer. From the corner of his eye Hammersmith had an impression of a broad, bright smile on
Galloway's face. Self-satisfied half-wit, coming in here when a man was in mourning.
"I suppose you've heard?"
The other grunted.

"She died ," said Hammersmith, beginning to cry. "She died a few ho urs ago , without re gaining consciousness. I
haven't told the actors. D idn't seem worth it."
Galloway said nothing in reply to this news. Didn't the bastard care? Couldn't he see that this was the end of the
world? The woman was dead . She'd died in the bowels of the Elysium. There'd be official enquiries made, the
insurance wo uld be examined , a post-mortem, an inquest:
it would reveal too much.
He drank dee ply from his glass, not bothering to look at Galloway again.
"Y our career'll take a dive after this, son . It won't just be me: oh de ar no."
Still Galloway kept his silence.
"Don't you care?" Hammersmith demanded.
There wa s silence for a mome nt, then G allowa y respo nded. "I d on't give a shit."
"Jumped up little stage-manager, that's all you are. That's all any of you fucking directors are! One good review and
you're G od's gift to art. W ell let me se t you straight abo ut that -"
He looked at G allowa y, his eyes, swim ming in alcohol, having difficulty focussing. But he got the re eventually.
Galloway, the dirty bugger, was naked from the waist down. He was wearing his shoes and his socks, but no trousers
or briefs. His se lf-exposure wo uld have be en co mical, but for the expression on his fac e. The ma n had gone mad : his
eyes were rolling around uncontrollably, saliva and snot ran from mouth and nose, his tongue hung out like the
tongue of a panting dog.
Ham me rsmith put his glass do wn on his blotting pad, and loo ked at the worst p art. T here was blood on Galloway's
shirt, a trail of it which led up his neck to his left ear, from which protruded the end of Diane Duvall's nail-file. It had
been driven deep into Galloway's brain. The man was surely dead.
But he stood, spoke, walked.
From the theatre, there rose another round of applause, muted by distance. It wasn't a real sound somehow; it came
fro m a no ther wo rld, a place where emo tio ns ruled. It w as a world Ham me rsmith had always felt exclude d from. He'd
never been much of an actor, though God knows he'd tried, and the two plays he'd penned were, he knew, execrable.
Book-keeping was his forte, and he'd used it to stay as close to the stage as he could, hating his own lack of art as
much as he resented that skill in others.
The applause died, and as if taking a cue from an unseen prompter, Galloway came at him. The mask he wore was
neither comic nor tragic, it was blood and laughter together. Cowering, Hammersmith was cornered behind his desk.
Galloway leapt on to it (he looked so ridiculous, shirt-tails and balls flip-flapping) and seized Hammersmith by the
tie.
"Philistine," said Galloway, never now to know Hammersmith's heart, and broke the m an's neck - snap! - while
below the applause began again.
"Do not embrace me till each circumstance
Of place, time, fortune, do cohere and jump
That I am Viola."
From Constantia's mouth the lines were a re velation. It was almost as though this Twelfth N ight were a new play,
and the part of Viola had been written for Co nstantia L ichfield alone. T he actors who shared the stage with her felt
their ego s shrivelling in the face of such a gift.
The last act continued to its bitter-sweet conclusion , the audience as enthralled as ever to jud ge by their breathless
attention.
The Duke spoke: "Give me thy hand;
And let me see thee in thy wom an's weed s."
In the rehearsal the invitation in the line had been ignored: no-one was to touch this Viola, much less take her hand.
But in the heat of the performance such taboos were forgotten. Possessed by the passion of the moment the actor
reached for Constantia. She, forgetting the taboo in her turn, reached to answer his touch.
In the wings Lichfield breathed "no" under his breath, but his order wasn't heard. The Duke grasped V iola's hand in
his, life and death holding court together und er this pa inted sky.
It was a chilly hand, a hand without blood in its veins, or a blush in its skin.
But here it was as good as alive.
They were equals, the living and the dead, and nobody could find just cause to part them.
In the wings, Lich field sighed, and allowed himself a smile. He'd feared that touch, feared it would break the spell.
But D ionysus was with them tonight. All wo uld be well; he felt it in his bones.
The act drew to a close, and M alvolio, still trumpeting his threats, even in defeat, was carted off. One by one the
com pany exited, leaving the clown to wrap up the p lay.

"A great while ago the world began,
W ith hey, ho, the wind and the rain,
But that's all one, our play is done
And we'll strive to please yo u every day."
The scene darkened to blackout, and the curtain descended. From the gods rapturous applause erupted, that same
rattling, hollow applause. The com pany, their faces shining with the success of the Dress Rehearsal, formed behind
the curtain for the bow. The curtain rose:
the applause mounted.
In the wings, Galloway joined Lichfield. He was dressed now: and he'd washed the blood off his neck.
"W ell, we have a brilliant success," said the skull. "It does seem a pity that this company shou ld be dissolved so
soon."
"It does," said the corpse.
The actors were shouting into the wings now, calling for Galloway to join them. They were applauding him,
encouraging him to show his face.
He put a hand on Lichfield's shoulder.
"We'll go together, sir," he said.
"N o, no, I could n't."
"You must. It's your triumph as much as mine." Lichfield nodded, and they went out together to take their bows
besid e the co mpa ny.
In the wings Tallulah was at work. She felt restored after her sleep in the Green Room. So much unpleasantness had
gone, taken with her life. She no longer suffered the aches in her hip, or the creeping neuralgia in her scalp. There
was no longer the necessity to draw breath through pipes encrusted with seventy years' muck, or to rub the backs of
her hands to get the circulation going; not even the need to blink. She laid the fires with a new strength, pressing the
detritus of past productions into use: old backdrops, props, costuming. When she had enough combustibles heaped,
she struck a match and set the flame to them. The Elysium began to burn.
Over the applause, somebod y was shouting:
"M arvello us, sweethearts, m arvello us."
It was Diane's voice, they all recognized it even though they couldn't quite see her. She was staggering down the
centre aisle towards the stage, making quite a fool of herself.
"Silly bitch," said Eddie.
"W hoo ps," sa id Gallowa y.
He was at the edge of the stage now, haranguing him.
"Got all you wanted now, have you? This your new lady-love is it? Is it?"
He was trying to clamber up, her hands gripping the hot metal hoods of the footlights. Her skin began to singe: the
fat was well and truly in the fire.
"For God 's sake, somebody stop her," said Eddie. But she d idn't seem to feel the searing of her hand s; she just
laughed in his face. The smell of burning flesh wafted up from the footlights. The company broke rank, triumph
forgotten.
Som ebo dy yelled : "Kill the lights!"
A beat, and then the stage lights were extinguished. Diane fell back, her hands smoking. One of the cast fainted,
another ran into the wings to be sick. Somewhere behind them, they could hear the faint crackle of flames, but they
had other calls on their attention.
W ith the footlights gone, they could see the auditorium more clearly. The stalls were empty, but the Balcony and the
gods were full to bursting with eager admirers. Every row was packed, and every available inch of aisle space
thronged with audience. Somebody up there started clapping again, alone for a few moments before the wave of
app lause b egan afresh. B ut now few of the com pany took pride in it.
Even from the stage, even with exhausted and light dazzled eyes, it was obvious that no man, woman or child in that
adoring crowd was alive. They waved fine silk handkerchiefs at the players in rotted fists, some of them beat a tattoo
on the seats in front of them, most just clapped, bone on bone.
Galloway smiled, bowed deeply, and received their admiration with gratitude. In all his fifteen years of work in the
theatre he had never found an audience so appreciative.
Bathing in the love of their admirers, Constantia and Richard Lichfield joined hands and walked do wn-stage to take
another bow, while the living actors retreated in horror.

They began to yell and pray, they let out howls, they ran about like discovered adulterers in a farce. But, like the
farce, there was no way out of the situation. There were bright flames tickling the roof-joists, and billows of canvas
casca ded dow n to right and left as the flies caught fire. In front, the d ead: behind, death. Sm oke was beginning to
thicken the air, it was impossible to see where one was going. Somebo dy was wearing a toga of burning canvas, and
reciting screams. So meone else was wielding a fire extinguisher against the inferno. All useless: all tired business,
bad ly managed. As the ro of began to give, lethal falls of timber and girder silenced most.
In the Gods, the audience had more or less departed. They were ambling back to their graves long before the fire
department appeared, their cerements and their faces lit by the glow of the fire as they glanced over their shoulders
to watch the E lysium perish. It had been a fine show, and the y were happ y to go home , content for another while to
gossip in the dark.
The fire burned through the night, despite the never less than gallant efforts of the fire department to put it out. By
four in the morning the fight was given up as lost, and the conflagration allowed its head. It had done with the
Elysium by dawn.
In the ruins the remains of seve ral persons we re discovered, most of the bodies in states that defied easy
identification. D ental record s were consulted, and one co rpse w as found to b e that of Giles H amm ersmith
(Administrato r), another that o f Ryan X avier (S tage M anager) and, mo st shockingly, a third that of D iane D uvall.
"Star of The Love C hild burned to death", read the tabloids. She was forgotten in a week.
There were no survivors. Several bodies were simply never found.
They stood at the side of the mo torway, and watched the cars careering through the night.
Lichfield was there of course, and Constantia, radiant as ever. Galloway had chosen to go with them, so had Eddie,
and Tallulah. Three or four others had also joined the troupe.
It was the first night of their freedom, and here they were on the open road, travelling players. The smoke alone had
killed Edd ie, but there were a few m ore serious injuries am ongst their numb er, sustained in the fire. Burned bodies,
broken limbs. But the audience they wo uld play for in the future would forgive them their pretty mutilations.
"There are lives lived for love," said Lichfield to his new company, "and lives lived for art. We happy band have
chosen the latter persuasion."
"T here was a ripp le of applause among st the actors.
"T o you, who have ne ver died, may I say: welcome to the world !"
Laughter: further applause.
The lights of the cars racing no rth along the motorway threw the co mpa ny into silho uette. T hey loo ked, to all intents
and purposes, like living men and women. But then wasn't that the trick of their craft? To imitate life so well the
illusion was indistinguishable from the real thing? And their new public, awaiting them in mortuaries, churchyards
and chap els of rest, would appreciate the skill mo re than most. Who better to applaud the sham of passion and pain
they would perform than the dead , who had ex perienced such feelings, and thrown them off at last?
The dea d. T hey nee ded entertainmen t no less tha n the living; and the y were a sorely neglected market.
Not that this company would perform for money, they would play for the love of their art, Lichfield had made that
clear from the outset. No more service would be done to Apollo.
"Now," he said, "which road shall we take, north or south?"
"North," said Eddie. "My mother's buried in Glasgow, she died before I ever played professionally. I'd like her to see
me."
"North it is, then," said Lichfield. "Shall we go and find ourselves some transport?"
He led the way towards the motorway restaurant, its neon flickering fitfully, keeping the night at light's length. The
colours were theatrically bright: scarlet, lime, cobalt, and a wash of white that splashed out of the windows on to the
car park where they stood. T he automatic doors hissed as a traveller emerged, bearing gifts of hamburgers and cake
to the child in the back of his car.
"Surely some friendly driver will find a niche for us," said Lichfield.
"All of us?" said G allowa y.
"A truck will do; beggars can't be too demanding," said Lichfield. "And we are beggars now: subject to the whim of
our p atrons."
"W e can always steal a car," said Tallulah.
"N o need for theft, except in extremity," Lichfield said. "Constantia and I will go ahead an d find a chauffeur."
He took his wife's hand.
"Nobody refuses beauty," he said.

"W hat do we do if anyone asks us what we're doing here?" asked Ed die nervously. He wasn't used to this role; he
needed reassurance.
Lichfield turned towards the comp any, his vo ice bo oming in the night:
"W hat do you do?" he sa id, "P lay life, of course! And sm ile!"

IN THE HILLS, THE CITIES
IT W ASN'T UN TIL the first week of the Yugoslavian trip that Mick discovered what a political bigot he'd chosen as
a lover. Certainly, he'd been warned. One of the queens at the Baths had told him Judd was to the Right of Attila the
Hun, but the man had been o ne of Judd's ex-affairs, and Mick had presumed there was mo re spite than percep tion in
the character assassination.
If only he'd listened. Then he wouldn't be driving along an interminable road in a Volkswagen that suddenly seemed
the size of a coffin, listening to Judd's views on Soviet expansionism. Jesus, he was so boring. He didn't converse, he
lectured, and endlessly. In Italy the sermon had been on the way the Communists had exploited the peasant vote.
No w, in Yugoslavia, Judd had really warm ed to his theme, and Mick was just about rea dy to take a ham mer to his
self-opinionated head.
It wasn't that he disagreed with everything Judd said. Some of the arguments (the ones Mick understood) seemed
quite sensible. B ut then, wh at did he kno w? H e was a danc e teacher. Judd w as a journalist, a p rofessio nal pundit.
He felt, like most journalists Mick had encountered, that he was obliged to have an opinion on everything under the
sun. Especially politics; that was the best trough to wallow in. You could get your snout, eyes, head and front hooves
in that mess of muck and have a fine old time splashing around. It was an inexhaustible subject to d evour, a swill
with a little of everything in it, because everything, according to Judd, was political. The arts were political. Sex was
political. Religion, com merc e, gard ening, eating, drinking and farting - all political.
Jesus, it was mind-blowingly boring; killingly, love deadeningly boring.
W orse still, Judd didn't seem to notice how bored Mick had become, or if he noticed, he didn't care. He just rambled
on, his arguments getting windier and windier, his sentences lengthening with every mile they drove.
Judd, M ick had decid ed, wa s a selfish bastard, and as soon as their honeymoo n was o ver he'd part with the guy.
It was not until their trip, that endless, motiveless caravan through the graveyards of mid-European culture, that Judd
realized what a political lightweight he had in Mick. The guy showed precious little interest in the economics or the
politics of the countries they passed through. He registered indifference to the full facts behind the Italian situation,
and yawned, yes, yawned when he tried (and failed) to debate the Russian threat to world peace. He had to face the
bitter truth: Mick was a queen; there was no other word for him. All right, perhaps he didn't mince or wear jewellery
to excess, but he was a queen nevertheless, happy to wallow in a dream-world of early Renaissance frescoes and
Yugoslavian icons. The complexities, the contradictions, even the agonies that made those cultures blossom and
wither were just tiresom e to him . His mind was no deeper than his look s; he was a well-gro ome d nobod y.
Some honeym oon.
The road south from Belgrade to Novi Pazar was, by Yugoslavian standards, a good one. There were fewer pot-holes
than on many of the roads they'd travelled, and it was relatively straight. The town of Novi Pazar lay in the valley of
the River Raska, south of the city named after the river. It wasn't an area particularly popular with the tourists.
Despite the good road it was still inaccessible, and lacked sophisticated amenities; but Mick was determined to see
the monastery at Sopocani, to the west of the town and after some bitter argument, he'd won.
The journey had pro ved uninspiring. On either side of the road the cultivated fields looked parched and dusty. The
summer had been unusually hot, and droughts were affecting many of the villages. Crops had failed, and livestock
had been prematurely slaughtered to prevent them dying of malnutrition. There was a defeated look about the few
faces they glimpsed at the roadside. Even the children had dour expressions; brows as heavy as the stale heat that
hung o ver the valley.
Now, with the cards on the table after a row at Belgrade, they drove in silence most of the time; but the straight road,
like mo st straight roads, invited dispute. W hen the driving was easy, the mind rooted for som ething to keep it
engaged. W hat better than a fight?
"Why the hell do you want to see this damn monastery?" Judd demanded.
It was an unmistakable invitation.
"W e've come all this way . . ." M ick tried to keep the tone co nversa tional. H e wasn't in the moo d for an argument.
"More fucking Virgins, is it?"

Keeping his voice as even as he could, Mick picked up the Guide and read aloud from it... "there, some of the
greatest works of Serbian painting can still be seen and enjoyed, including what many commentators agree to be the
enduring ma ste rpiece of the R aska scho ol: 'T he Dormitio n of the V irgin.'"
Silence.
Then Judd: " I'm up to here with churches."
"It's a masterpiece."
"T hey're all ma sterpieces accord ing to that bloo dy bo ok."
Mick felt his control slipping.
"Two and a half hours at most -"
"I told you, I don't want to see another church; the smell of the places makes me sick. Stale incense, old sweat and
lies..."
"It's a short detour; then we can get back on to the ro ad an d you can give me another lecture on farming subsid ies in
the Sandzak."
"I'm just trying to get some decent conversation going instead of this endless tripe about Serbian fucking
masterpieces -"
"Sto p the car!"
"What?"
"Sto p the car!"
Judd pulled the V olkswagen into the sid e of the road . Mick got out.
The road was hot, but there was a slight breeze. He took a deep breath, and wandered into the middle of the road.
Empty of traffic and of pedestrians in both directions. In every direction, empty. The hills shimm ered in the hea t off
the fields. There were wild poppies growing in the ditches. Mick crossed the road, squatted on his haunches and
picked one.
Behind him he heard the VW's door slam.
"W hat did you stop us for?" Judd said. H is voice was ed gy, still hoping for tha t argum ent, begging for it.
Mick stoo d up, playing w ith the po ppy. It was close to see ding, late in the season. T he pe tals fell from the receptac le
as soon as he touched them, little splashes of red fluttering down on to the grey tarmac.
"I asked you a question," Judd said again.
Mick looked round. Judd was standing the far side of the car, his brows a knitted line of burgeoning anger. But
handsome; oh yes; a face that made wom en weep with frustration that he was gay. A heavy black moustache
(perfectly trimm ed ) and eyes you cou ld watch forever, and never see the sam e light in them twice. W hy in God 's
name, thought M ick, do es a man as fine as that have to b e such an insensitive little shit?
Judd returned the look of contemptuous appraisal, staring at the pouting pretty boy across the road. It made him want
to puke, seeing the little act Mick was performing for his benefit. It might just have been plausible in a sixteen-yearold virgin. In a twenty-five-year-old, it lacked credibility.
Mick drop ped the flower, and untucked his T-shirt from his jeans. A tight stomach, then a slim, smooth chest were
revealed as he pulled it off. His hair was ruffled when his head re-appeared, and his face wore a broad grin. Judd
looked at the torso. Neat, not too muscular. An appendix scar peering over his faded jeans. A gold chain, small but
catching the sun, dipped in the hollow of his throat. Without meaning to, he returned Mick's grin, and a kind of
peace was made between them.
Mick was unbuckling his belt.
"W ant to fuck?" he said, the grin not faltering.
"It's no use," came an answer, though not to that question.
"What isn't?"
"W e're not comp atible."
"Want a bet?"
Now he was unzipped, and turning away towards the wheat-field that bordered the road.
Judd watched as Mick cut a swathe through the swaying sea, his back the co lour of the grain, so that he was almost
camouflaged by it. It was a dangerous game, screwing in the open air - this wasn't San Francisco, or even Hampstead
Heath. Nervously, Judd glanced along the road. Still empty in both directions. And Mick was turning, deep in the
field, turning and smiling an d waving like a swimm er buoyed up in a golden surf. W hat the hell there was nobod y to
see, nobody to know. Just the hills, liquid in the heat-haze, their forested backs bent to the business of the earth, and
a lost dog, sitting at the edge of the road, waiting for some lost master.
Judd followed Mick's path through the wheat, unbuttoning his shirt as he walked. Field-mice ran ahead of him,
scurrying through the stalks as the giant came their way, his feet like thunder. Judd saw their panic, and smiled. He
meant no harm to them , but then how we re they to know that? Maybe he'd put out a hundred lives, mice, beetles,

worm s, before he re ached the sp ot where M ick was lying, stark bollock nake d, on a bed of trampled grain, still
grinning.
It was good love they made, good, strong love, equal in pleasure for both; there was a precision to their passion,
sensing the moment when effortless delight became urgent, when desire became necessity. They locked together,
limb around limb, tongue around tongue, in a knot only orgasm could untie, their backs alternately scorched and
scratched as they rolled around exchanging blows and kisses. In the thick of it, creaming together, they heard the
phut-phut-phut of a tractor passing by; but they were past caring.
They made their way back to the Volkswagen with body-threshed wheat in their hair and their ears, in their socks
and between their toes. Their grins had been replaced with easy smiles: the truce, if not permanent, would last a few
hours at least.
The car was baking hot, and they had to open all the windows and doors to let the breeze cool it before they started
towards Novi Pazar. It was four o'clock, and there was still an hour's driving ahead.
As they got into the car Mick said, "We'll forget the monastery, eh?"
Judd gap ed. "I thought -"
"I co uldn't bear ano ther fucking Virgin."
They laughed lightly together, then kisse d, tasting each o ther and them selves, a mingling of saliva, and the aftertaste
of salt semen.
The following day was bright, but not particularly warm. No blue skies: just an even layer of white cloud. The
morning air was sharp in the lining of the nostrils, like ether, or p epp ermint.
Vaslav Jelovsek watched the pigeons in the main square of Popolac courting death as they skipped and fluttered
ahead of the vehicles that were buzzing around. Some about military business, some civilian. An air of sober
intention barely suppressed the excitement he felt on this day, an excitement he knew was shared by every man,
woman and child in Popo lac. Shared by the pigeons too for all he knew. Maybe that was why they played under the
wheels with such dexterity, knowing that on this day of days no harm could come to them.
He scanned the sky again, that same white sky he'd been peering at since dawn. The cloud-layer was low; not ideal
for the celebrations. A phrase passed through his mind, an English phrase he'd heard from a friend, 'to have your
head in the clouds'. It mea nt, he gathered , to be lo st in a reverie, in a white, sightless dream . That, he thought wryly,
was all the West knew about clouds, that they stood for dreams. It took a vision they lacked to make a truth out of
that casual turn of phrase. He re, in these secret hills, would n't they create a spectacular reality from those idle
words? A living proverb.
A head in the clouds.
Already the first contingent was assembling in the square. There were one or two absentees owing to illness, but the
auxiliaries were ready and waiting to take their places. Such eagerness! Such wide smiles when an auxiliary heard
his or her name and number called and was taken out of line to join the limb that was already taking shape. On every
side, miracles of organization. Everyone with a job to do and a place to go. There was no shouting or pushing:
indeed, voices were scarcely raised above an eager whisper. He watched in admiration as the work of positioning
and buckling and roping went on.
It was going to be a long and arduous day. Vaslav had been in the square since an hour before dawn, drinking coffee
from imported plastic cups, discussing the half-hourly meteorological reports coming in from Pristina and Mitrovica,
and watching the starless sky as the grey light of morning crept across it. Now he was drinking his sixth coffee of the
day, and it was still ba rely seven o'clock. Across the square M etzinger looked as tired and as anxious as Vaslav felt.
They'd watched the dawn seep out of the east together, Metzinger and he. But now they had separated, forgetting
previous companionship, and would not speak until the contest was over. After all Metzinger was from Podujevo.
He had his own city to support in the coming battle. Tomorrow they'd exchange tales of their adventures, but for
today they must behave as if they didn't know each other, not even to exchange a smile. For today they had to be
utterly partisan, caring only for the victory of their own city over the opposition.
Now the first leg of Popolac was erected, to the mutual satisfaction of Metzinger and Vaslav. All the safety checks
had been meticulously made, and the leg left the sq uare, its sha dow falling hugely acro ss the face of the T own Hall.
Vaslav sipp ed his sw eet, sweet coffee and allowed himself a little grunt of satisfaction. S uch days, such days. D ays
filled with glory, with snapping flags and high, stoma ch-turning sights, enough to last a man a lifetime. It was a
golden foretaste of Heaven.
Let America have its simple pleasures, its cartoon mice, its candy-coated castles, its cults and its technologies, he
wanted no ne of it. The grea test wonder o f the world was here , hidden in the hills.
Ah, such da ys.

In the main square of Podujevo the scene was no less animated, and no less inspiring. Perhaps there was a muted
sense of sadness underlying this year's celebration, but that was understandable. Nita Obrenovic, Podujevo's loved
and respected organizer, was no longer living. The previous winter had claimed her at the age of ninety-four, leaving
the city bereft of her fierce opinions and her fiercer proportions. For sixty years Nita had worked with the citizens of
Podujevo , always planning for the next contest and improving on the designs, her energies spent on making the next
creatio n more ambitious and m ore life-like than the last.
Now she was dead, and sorely missed. There was no disorganization in the streets without her, the people were far
too d isciplined for that, but they were alread y falling behind schedule, and it was almo st seven-twenty-five. Nita's
daughter had taken over in her mother's stead, but she lacked Nita's power to galvanize the people into action. She
was, in a word, too gentle for the job in hand. It required a leader who was part prophet and part ringmaster, to coax
and bully and inspire the citizens into their p laces. M aybe, after two or three dec ades, and w ith a few more contests
unde r her belt, Nita O brenovic's da ughter would make the grad e. But for tod ay Po dujevo wa s behindhand; safetychecks were being ov erlooked ; nervous looks replaced the confidence of earlier years.
Nevertheless, at six minutes before eight the first limb of P odujevo mad e its way out of the city to the asse mbly
point, to wait for its fellow.
By that time the flanks were already lashed together in Popo lac, and armed contingents were awaiting orders in the
Town Square.
Mick woke promptly at seven, though there was no alarm clock in their simply furnished room at the Hotel Beograd.
He lay in his bed and listened to Judd's regular breathing from the twin bed across the room. A dull morning light
whimpered through the thin curtains, not encouraging an early departure. After a few minutes' staring at the cracked
paintwork on the ceiling, and a while longer at the crudely carved crucifix on the opposite wall, Mick got up and
went to the window. It was a dull day, as he had guessed. The sky was overcast, and the roofs of Novi Pazar were
grey and featureless in the flat morning light. But beyond the roofs, to the east, he could see the hills. There was sun
there. He co uld see shafts of light catching the blue-green of the forest, inviting a visit to their slopes.
Today maybe they would go south to Kosovska Mitrovica. There was a market there, wasn't there, and a museum?
And they could drive down the valley of the Ibar, following the road beside the river, where the hills rose wild and
shining on either side. T he hills, yes; today he d ecided they would see the hills.
It was eight-fifteen.
By nine the main bodies of Popolac and Podujevo were substantially assembled. In their allotted districts the limbs
of both cities were rea dy and wa iting to join their expectant torsos.
Vaslav Jelovsek cap ped his gloved hand s over his eyes and surveyed the sky. T he cloud-base had risen in the last
hour, no doubt of it, and there were breaks in the clouds to the west; even, on occasion, a few glimpses of the sun. It
wouldn't be a perfect day for the contest perhaps, but certainly adequate.
Mick and Judd breakfasted late on hemendeks - roughly translated as ham and eggs - and several cups of good black
coffee. It was brightening up, even in Novi Pazar, and their ambitions were set high. Kosovska Mitrovica by
lunchtime, and maybe a visit to the hill-castle of Zvecan in the afternoon.
About nine-thirty they motored out of Novi Pazar and took the Srbovac road south to the Ibar valley. Not a good
road , but the b ump s and pot-ho les cou ldn't spoil the new day.
The road was empty, except for the occasional pedestrian; and in place of the maize and corn fields they'd passed on
the previous day the road was flanked by undulating hills, whose sides were thickly and darkly forested. Apart from
a few birds, they saw no wildlife. Even their infrequent travelling companions petered out altogether after a few
miles, and the o ccasio nal farm house they drove by appeared lo cked and sh uttered up. B lack pigs ran unattend ed in
the yard , with no child to feed them. W ashing snapped and b illowed on a sagging line, with no washerwom an in
sight.
At first this solitary journey through the hills was refreshing in its lack of human contact, but as the morning drew
on, an uneasiness grew on them.
"Shouldn't we have seen a signpost to Mitrovica, Mick?"
He peered at the map.
"M aybe. . ."
"- we've taken the wrong road."
"If there'd been a sign, I'd have seen it. I think we should try and get off this road, bear south a bit more - meet the
valley clo ser to M itrovica than we'd planned."
"How do we get off this bloody road?"

"There've been a couple of turnings. . ."
"D irt-tracks."
"W ell it's either that or going on the w ay we are." Judd pursed his lips.
"Cigarette?" he asked.
"Finished them m iles back."
In front of them, the hills formed an impenetrable line. There was no sign of life ahead; no frail wisp of chimney
smoke, no sound of voice or vehicle.
"All right," said Judd , "we take the next turning. Anything's better than this."
They drove on. T he road was deteriorating rapidly, the pot-holes becoming craters, the hummocks feeling like
bod ies beneath the wheels.
Then:
"T here!"
A turning: a palpable turning. Not a major road, certainly. In fact barely the dirt-track Judd had described the other
roads as being, but it was an escape from the endless perspective of the road they were trapped on.
"T his is becoming a blo ody sa fari," said Judd as the V W bega n to bu mp a nd grind its way along the do leful little
track.
"Where's your sense of adventure?"
"I forgot to p ack it."
They were beginning to climb now, as the track wound its way up into the hills. The forest closed over them,
blotting out the sky, so a shifting patchwork of light and shadow scooted over the bonnet as they drove. There was
birdsong suddenly, vacuous and optimistic, and a smell of new pine and undug earth. A fox crossed the track, up
ahead, and watched a long moment as the car grumbled up toward s it. Then, with the leisurely stride of a fearless
prince, it sauntered aw ay into the trees.
W herever they were go ing, M ick thought, this wa s better than the road they'd left. Soon maybe they'd stop , and walk
a while, to find a promontory from which they could see the valley, even Novi Pazar, nestled behind them.
The two men were still an hour's drive from Popolac when the head of the contingent at last marched out of the
To wn Sq uare and took up its position with the m ain bo dy.
This last exit left the city comp letely deserted. Not even the sick or the old were neglected on this day; no-one was to
be denied the spectacle and the triumph of the contest. Every single citizen, however young or infirm, the blind, the
crippled, babes in arms, pregnant women - all made their way up from their proud city to the stamping ground. It
was the law that they should attend: but it needed no enforcing. No citizen of either city would have missed the
chance to se e that sight - to experience the thrill of that contest.
The confrontation had to be total, city against city. This was the way it had always been.
So the cities went up into the hills. By noon they were gathered, the citizens of Popolac and Podujevo, in the secret
well of the hills, hidden from civilized eyes, to do ancient and ceremonial battle.
Tens of tho usand s of hearts beat faster. T ens of thousands o f bod ies stretched an d straine d and sweated as the twin
cities took their positions. The shadows of the bodies darkened tracts of land the size of small towns; the weight of
their feet trampled the grass to a green milk; their movement killed animals, crushed bushes and threw down trees.
The earth literally reverberated with their passage, the hills echoing with the boo ming din of their steps.
In the towering body of Podujevo, a few technical hitches were becoming apparent. A slight flaw in the knitting of
the left flank had resulted in a weakness there: and there were consequent problems in the swivelling mechanism of
the hips. It was stiffer than it should be, and the m ovements were not smo oth. As a result there was considerable
strain be ing put upon that region of the city. It was b eing dealt with bravely; after all, the co ntest was intended to
press the contestants to their limits. But breaking point was closer than anyone would have dared to admit. The
citizens were not as resilient as they had b een in previous contests. A bad deca de for crops had p roduced bo dies less
well-nourished , spines less supp le, wills less reso lute. The ba dly knitted flank might not have caused an acc ident in
itself, but further weakened by the frailty of the competitors it set a scene for death on an unprecedented scale.
They stopped the car.
"Hear that?"
Mick shook his head. His hearing ha dn't been goo d since he was an ad olescent. T oo m any rock shows had blown his
eardrums to hell.
Judd got out of the car.
The bird s were quieter now. The noise he'd hea rd as they dro ve came again. It wasn't simply a noise: it was almo st a
motion in the earth, a ro ar that seemed seated in the substance of the hills.

Thunde r, was it?
No, too rhythmical. It came again, through the soles of the feet -Boom.
Mick heard it this time. He leaned out of the car window.
"It's up ahead somewhere. I hear it now." Judd nodded.
Boom.
The earth-thunder sounded aga in. "W hat the hell is it?" said M ick.
"W hatever it is, I want to see it," Judd got back into the Volkswagen, smiling.
"So unds almost like guns," he said, starting the car. " Big guns."
Through his Russian-made binoculars Vaslav Jelovsek watched the starting-official raise his pistol. He saw the
feather of white sm oke rise from the barrel, and a seco nd later heard the so und o f the shot across the valley.
The contest had begun.
He looked up at twin towers of Popolac and Podujevo. Heads in the clouds - well almost. They practically stretched
to touch the sky. It was an awesome sight, a breath-stopping, sleep-stabbing sight. Two cities swaying and writhing
and preparing to take their first steps towards each other in this ritual battle.
Of the two, P odujevo seemed the less stable. Th ere wa s a slight hesitation as the city raised its left leg to b egin its
marc h. No thing serio us, just a little difficulty in co-ordinating hip and thigh muscles. A co uple o f steps and the city
would find its rhythm; a couple more and its inhabitants wou ld be moving as one creature, o ne pe rfect giant set to
match its grace and power against its mirror-image.
The gunshot had sent flurries of birds up from the trees that banked the hidden valley. They rose up in celebration of
the great contest, chattering their excitement as they swooped over the stamping-ground.
"Did you hear a shot?" asked Judd.
Mick nodded.
"Military exercises . . .?" Judd's smile had broadened. He could see the headlines already - exclusive reports of secret
manoeuvres in the depths of the Yugoslavian countryside. Russian tanks perhaps, tactical exercises being held out of
the W est's prying sight. W ith luck, he would be the carrier of this news.
Boom.
Boom.
There were birds in the air. The thunder was louder now.
It did sound like guns.
"It's over the next ridge . . ." said Judd.
"I don't think we should go any further."
"I have to see."
"I don't. W e're not suppo sed to be here."
"I don't see an y signs."
"T hey'll cart us aw ay; dep ort us - I don't know - I just think -"
Boom.
"I've go t to see."
The words were scarcely out of his mouth when the screaming started.
Podujevo was screaming: a death-cry. Someone buried in the weak flank had died of the strain, and had begun a
chain of decay in the system. One man loosed his neighbour and that neighbour loosed his, spreading a cancer of
chaos through the body of the city. The coherence of the towering structure deteriorated with terrifying rapidity as
the failure of one part of the anatomy put unendurable pressure on the other.
The masterpiece that the good citizens of Podujevo had constructed of their own flesh and blood tottered and then
-a dynamited skyscraper, it began to fall.
The broke n flank spewed citizens like a slashed artery spitting blood. Then, with a graceful sloth that made the
agonies of the citizens all the more horrible, it bo wed towards the earth, all its limbs dissem bling as it fell.
The huge head, that had brushed the clouds so recently, was flung back on its thick neck. Ten thousand mo uths
spoke a single scream for its vast mouth, a wordless, infinitely pitiable appeal to the sky. A howl of loss, a howl of
anticipation, a howl of puzzlement. How, that scream demanded, could the day of days end like this, in a welter of
falling bodies?
"Did you hear that?"
It was unmistakably human, though almost deafeningly loud. Judd's stomach convulsed. He looked across at M ick,

who was as white as a sheet.
Judd stopped the car.
"No ," said Mick.
"Listen - for Christ's sake," The din of dying moans, appeals and imprecations flooded the air. It was very close.
"We've got to go on now," Mick implored.
Judd sho ok his head. He w as pre pared for so me m ilitary spectacle - all the R ussian army massed over the next hill but that noise in his ears was the noise of human flesh - too human for words. It reminded him of his childhood
imaginings of Hell; the endless, unspeakable torments his mother had threatened him with if he failed to embrace
Christ. It was a terro r he'd forgotten for twenty years. B ut sudd enly, here it was again, fresh-faced. M aybe the pit
itself gaped just over the ne xt horizon, with his mother standing at its lip, inviting him to taste its punishments.
"If you won't drive, I will."
Mick got out of the car and crossed in fro nt of it, glancing up the track as he did so. There was a mo me nt's
hesitation, no more than a moment's, when his eyes flickered with disbelief, before he turned towards the
windscreen, his face even paler than it had been previously and said:
"Jesus Christ. . ." in a voice that was thick with suppressed nausea.
His lover wa s still sitting behind the wheel, his head in his hands, trying to blot out mem ories.
"Judd.. ."
Judd looked up, slowly. Mick was staring at him like a wildman, his face shining with a sudden, icy sweat. Judd
looked past him. A few metres ahead the track had mysteriously darkened, as a tide edged towards the car, a thick,
deep tide of blood. Judd's reason twisted and turned to make any other sense of the sight than that inevitable
conclusion. But there was no saner explanation. It was blood, in unendurable abundance, blood without end -And
now, in the breeze, there was the flavour of freshly - opened carcasses: the smell out of the depths of the human
bod y, part sweet, part savoury.
Mick stumbled back to the passeng er's side of the VW and fumbled weakly at the handle. Th e door opened sudde nly
and he lurched inside, his eyes glazed.
"Back up," he said.
Judd reached for the ignition. The tide of blood was already sloshing against the front wheels. Ahead, the world had
been painted red.
"D rive, for fuck's sake, d rive!"
Judd was making no attemp t to start the car.
"W e must look," he said, without conviction, "w e have to."
"W e don't have to do anything," said M ick, "b ut get the hell out of here. It's not o ur business . . ."
"Plane-crash -, "
"There's no smoke."
"T hose are human voices."
Mick's instinct was to leave well alone. He could read about the tragedy in a newspaper - he could see the pictures
tomorrow when they were grey and grainy. Tod ay it was too fresh, too unpredictable -Anything could be at the end
of that trac k, bleeding -"W e must -"
Judd started the car, while beside him Mick began to moan q uietly. The VW began to edge forward, nosing through
the river of blood, its wheels sp inning in the quea sy, foaming tide.
"N o," said M ick, very q uietly, "please, no . . "
"W e must," was J udd's reply. "W e must. We must."
Only a few yards away the surviving city of Popolac was recovering from its first convulsions. It stared, with a
thousand eyes, at the ruins of its ritual enemy, now spread in a tangle of rope and bodies over the impacted ground,
shattered forever. Popo lac staggered back from the sight, its vast legs flattening the forest that bounded the
stamping-ground, its arms flailing the air. But it kept its balance, even as a common insanity, woken by the horror at
its feet, surged through its sinews and curdled its brain. The order went out: the body thrashed and twisted and
turned from the grisly carpet of Podujevo , and fled into the hills.
As it headed into oblivion, its towering form passed between the car and the sun, throwing its cold shadow over the
bloody road. M ick saw nothing through his tears, and Judd, his eyes narrowed against the sight he feared seeing
around the next bend, only dim ly registered that so mething had blotted the light for a minute. A cloud, perhap s. A
flock of birds.
Had he look ed up at that mo me nt, ju st stolen a glance out to wards the north-east, he would have seen Pop olac's
head, the vast, swarm ing head o f a madd ened city, disapp earing below his line of vision, as it marched into the hills.
He would have known that this territory was beyond his comp rehension; and that there was no healing to b e done in

this corner of Hell. But he didn't see the city, and he and Mick's last turning-point had passed. From now on, like
Popolac and its dead twin, they were lost to sanity, and to all hope of life.
They rounded the b end, and the ruins of P odujevo came into sight.
Their do mesticated im aginatio ns had never conc eived of a sight so unspe akab ly brutal.
Perhaps in the battlefields of Europe as many corpses had been heaped together: but had so many of them been
wome n and children, locked together with the corpse s of men? There had been piles of dead as high, but ever so
many so recently abundant with life? There had been cities laid waste as quickly, but ever an entire city lost to the
simple dictate of gravity?
It was a sight beyond sickness. In the face of it the mind slowed to a snail's pace, the forces of reason picked over the
evide nce with meticulous hands, searching for a flaw in it, a place where it could say:
This is not hap pening. This is a dre am o f death, not de ath itself.
But reason could find no weakness in the wall. This was true. It was death indeed.
Podujevo had fallen.
Thirty-eight thousand , seven hundred and sixty-five citizens were spread on the ground, or rather flung in ung ainly,
seeping piles. Those who had not died of the fall, or of suffocation, were dying. There would be no survivors from
that city except that bundle of onlookers that had traipsed out of their homes to watch the contest. Those few
Podujevians, the crippled, the sick, the ancient few, were now staring, like Mick and Judd, at the carnage, trying not
to believe.
Judd was first out of the car. The ground beneath his suedes was sticky with coagulating gore. He surveyed the
carnage. T here was no wreckage: no sign of a plane cra sh, no fire, no smell of fuel. Just tens of thousands o f fresh
bodies, all either naked or dressed in an identical grey serge, men, women and children alike. Some of them, he
could see, wore leather harnesses, tightly buckled around their upper chests, and snaking out from these contraptions
were lengths of rope, miles and miles of it. The closer he looked, the more he saw of the extraordinary system of
knots and lashings that still held the bodies together. For some reason these people had been tied together, side by
side. Some were yoked on their neighbours' shoulders, straddling them like boys playing at horse back riding. Others
were locked arm in arm, knitted together with threads of rope in a wall of muscle and bone. Yet others were trussed
in a ball, with their heads tucked between their knees. All were in some way connected up with their fellows, tied
together as though in some insane collective bondage game.
Ano ther sho t.
Mick looked up.
Across the field a solitary man, dressed in a drab overcoat, was walking amongst the bodies with a revolver,
dispatching the dying. It was a pitifully inadequate act of mercy, but he went on nevertheless, choosing the suffering
children first. Emptying the revolver, filling it again, emptying it, filling it, emptying it -Mick let go.
He yelled at the top of his voice over the moans of the injured.
"What is this?"
The man looked up from his ap palling d uty, his face as dead-grey as his coat.
"Uh?" he grunted, frowning at the two interlopers through his thick spectacles.
"W hat's happened here? " M ick shouted across at him. It felt good to shout, it felt good to sound angry at the man.
Maybe he was to blame. It would be a fine thing, just to have someone to blame.
"T ell us -" M ick said. He could hear the tears thro bbing in his voice. "T ell us, for G od's sake. Explain."
Grey-coat shook his head. He didn't understand a word this young idiot was saying. It was English he spoke, but
that's all he knew. Mick began to walk towards him, feeling all the time the eyes of the dead on him. Eyes like black,
shining gems set in broken faces: eyes lo oking at him up side down, on heads severed from their seating . Eyes in
heads that had solid howls for voices. Eyes in heads b eyond ho wls, beyond b reath. Tho usands of eyes.
He reached Grey-coat, whose gun was almost empty. He had taken off his spectacles and thrown them aside. He too
was we eping, little jerks ran through his big, ungainly b ody.
At Mick's feet, somebod y was reaching for him. He didn't want to look, but the hand touched his shoe and he had no
choice but to see its owner. A young man, lying like a flesh swastika, every joint smashed. A child lay under him,
her blood y legs po king out like two pink sticks.
He wanted the man's revolver, to stop the hand from touching him. Better still he wanted a machine-gun, a flamethrower, anything to wip e the agony aw ay.
As he looked up from the broken bo dy, Mick saw Grey-coat raise the revolver.
"Judd -" he said, but as the word left his lips the muzzle of the revolver was slipped into Grey-coat's mouth and the
trigger was pulled.
Gre y-coat had saved the last bullet for himself. The bac k of his head opened like a dro ppe d egg, the shell of his skull

flying off. His body went limp and sank to the gro und, the revolver still between his lips.
"W e must -" began M ick, saying the words to nobody. " W e must . . ."
What was the imperative? In this situation, what must they do?
"W e must -"Judd was behind him. "Help -" he said to Mick.
"Y es. W e must get help. W e must -, "Go ."
Go! T hat was what they must do. On any pretext, for any fragile, cowardly reason, they must go. Get out of the
battlefield , get out o f the reac h of a dying hand with a woun d in place of a bod y.
"W e have to tell the authorities. Find a town. G et help -"
"Priests," said M ick. "T hey nee d priests."
It was absurd, to think of giving the Last Rites to so many people. It would take an army of priests, a water cannon
filled with ho ly water, a lo udsp eaker to pronounce the benedictions.
They turned away, together, from the horror, and wrapped their arms around each other, then picked their way
through the carnage to the car.
It was occupied.
Vaslav Jelovsek was sitting behind the wheel, and trying to start the Volkswagen. He turned the ignition key once.
Twice. Third time the engine caught and the wheels span in the crimson mud as he put her into reverse and backed
do wn the track. Vaslav saw the E nglishm en running tow ards the car, cursing him. T here was no help for it - he didn 't
want to steal the vehicle, but he had work to do. He had b een a referee, he had been responsible for the contest, and
the safety o f the con testants. O ne of the heroic cities had already fallen. He must do eve rything in his p ower to
prevent Popolac from following its twin. He must chase Popolac, and reason with it. Talk it down out of its terrors
with quiet words and prom ises. If he failed there would be another disaster the equal of the one in front of him, and
his conscience was already broken enough.
Mick was still chasing the VW, shouting at Jelovsek. The thief took no notice, concentrating on manoeuvring the car
back down the narrow, slippery track. Mick was losing the chase rapidly. The car had begun to pick up speed.
Furious, but without the breath to speak his fury, Mick stood in the road, hands on his knees, heaving and sobbing.
"Bastard!" said Judd.
Mick looked down the track. Their car had already disappeared.
"Fucker couldn't even drive prope rly."
"W e have . . . we have . . . to catch . . . up . . ." said M ick through gulps of breath.
"How?"
"O n foot. . ."
"W e have n't even go t a map . . . it's in the car."
"Jesus . . . Christ . . . Alm ighty."
They walked down the track together, away from the field.
After a few metres the tide of blood bega n to pe ter out. Just a few conge aling rivulets dribbled on tow ards the main
road. Mick and Jud d followed the bloody tyre marks to the junction.
The Srb ovac road was emp ty in both directions. T he tyre m arks sho wed a left turn. "H e's gone deep er into the hills,"
said Judd, staring along the lonely road towards the blue-green distance.
"H e's out of his m ind!"
"Do we go back the way we came?"
"It'll take us all night on fo ot."
"W e'll hop a lift."
Judd sho ok his head: his face was slack and his look lost.
"Don't you see, Mick, they all knew this was happening. The p eople in the farms - they got the hell out while those
peo ple we nt crazy up there. There'll be no cars along this road, I'll lay you anything - except maybe a couple of shitdum b tourists like us - and no tou rist would stop for the likes of us."
He was right. They looked like butchers - splattered with blood. Their faces were shining with grease, their eyes
maddened.
"W e'll have to w alk," said Jud d, 'the way he went."
He p ointed along the road. T he hills were darker now; the sun had suddenly gone out on their slopes.
Mick shrugged . Either way he could see they had a night on the road ahe ad of them. B ut he wanted to walk
somewhere - anywhere - as long as he put distance between him and the dead.
In Popolac a kind of peace reigned. Instead of a frenzy of panic there was a numbness, a sheep-like acceptance of the
world as it was. Locked in their positions, strapped, roped and harnessed to each other in a living system that

allowed for no single voice to be louder than any other, nor any back to labour less than its neighbour's, they let an
insane consensus replace the tranquil voice of reason. They were convulsed into one mind, one thought, one
amb ition. T hey be came, in the sp ace o f a few mome nts, the single-minded giant whose image they had so brilliantly
re-created . T he illusion of petty ind ividuality was swep t away in an irresistible tid e of collective feeling - not a mo b's
passion, but a telepathic surge that dissolved the voices of thousands into one irresistible command.
And the voice said: Go!
The voice said: take this horrible sight away, where I need never see it again.
Popolac turned away into the hills, its legs taking strides half a mile long. Each man, woman and child in that
seething tower was sightless. They saw only through the eyes of the city. They were thoughtless, but to think the
city's thoughts. And they believed themselves deathless, in their lumbering, relentless strength. Vast and mad and
deathless.
Two m iles along the road M ick and Judd smelt petrol in the air, and a little further along they came upon the VW . It
had overturned in the reed-clogged drainage ditch at the side of the road. It had not caught fire.
The drive r's door was open, and the bod y of Vaslav Jelovsek had tumbled out. His fac e was calm in
unco nsciousness. There seemed to be no sign of injury, except for a small cut or two on his so ber face. T hey gen tly
pulled the thief out of the wreckage and up out of the filth of the ditch on to the road. He moaned a little as they
fussed about him, rolling Mick's sweater up to pillow his head and removing the man's jacket and tie.
Quite sudd enly, he opene d his eyes.
He stared at them both.
"Are you all right?" Mick asked.
The man said nothing for a moment. He seemed not to understand.
Then:
"English?" he said. His accent was thick, but the question was quite clear.
"Y es."
"I heard yo ur voices. English."
He frowned and winced.
"Are you in pain?" said Judd.
The man seem ed to find this amusing.
"Am I in pain?" he rep eated , his face screwed up in a mixture of agony and delight.
"I shall die," he said, through gritted teeth.
"N o," said M ick, "yo u're all right -"
The man shook his head, his authority absolute.
"I shall die," he said a gain, the voice full of determination, "I want to die."
Judd cro uched closer to him. His voice was weaker b y the mo ment.
"T ell us what to do," he said. The ma n had closed his eyes. Ju dd shook him awake, ro ughly.
"T ell us," he said again, his sho w of co mpa ssion rapidly d isapp earing. "T ell us what this is all about."
"Abou t?" sa id the m an, his eyes still closed . "It was a fall, that's all. Just a fall ..."
"What fell?"
"T he city. Podu jevo. My city."
"What did it fall from?"
"Itself, of course."
The man wa s explaining nothing; just answering one riddle with another.
"W here were you going?" M ick inquired, trying to sound as unagressive as possible.
"After Po polac," said the man.
"Popolac?" said Judd.
Mick began to see some sense in the story.
"Popo lac is ano ther city. Like Po dujevo. T win cities. T hey're on the map -"
"Where's the city now?" said Judd.
Vaslav Jelovsek seemed to choose to tell the truth. There was a moment when he hovered between dying with a
riddle on his lips, and living long enough to unburden his story. W hat did it matter if the tale was told now? T here
could never be another contest: all that was over.
"T hey came to fight," he said, his vo ice now very so ft, "Po polac and Podujevo. T hey co me every ten years -"
"Fight?" said Judd. "You mean all those people were slaughtered?"
Vaslav shook his head.

"N o, no. They fell. I told yo u."
"Well, how do they fight?" Mick said.
"G o into the hills," wa s the only reply.
Vaslav o pened his eyes a little. The faces that loomed over him we re exhausted and sick. T hey had suffered, these
innocents. They deserved some explanation.
"As giants," he said. "They fought as giants. They made a body out of their bodies, do you understand? The frame,
the muscles, the b one, the eyes, nose, tee th all mad e of men and wom en."
"He's delirious," said Judd.
"Y ou go into the hills," the man rep eated . "See for yourselves how true it is."
"Even suppo sing -" Mick began.
Vaslav interrupted him, eager to be finished. "They were good at the game of giants. It took many centuries of
practice: every ten years making the figure larger and larger. One always ambitious to be larger than the other.
Ropes to tie them all together, flawlessly. Sinews . . ligaments . . . There was food in its belly . . . there were pipes
from the loins, to take away the waste. The best-sighted sat in the eye-sockets, the best voiced in the mouth and
throat. You wou ldn't believe the engineering of it."
"I don't," said Judd, and stood up.
"It is the b ody o f the state," said V aslav, so softly his voice was barely above a whisper, "it is the shape of our lives."
There was a silence. Small clouds passed over the road, soundlessly shedding their mass to the air.
"It was a miracle," he said. It was as if he re alized the true enorm ity of the fact for the first time. " It was a m iracle."
It was enough. Yes. It was quite enough.
His mouth closed, the words said, and he died.
Mick felt this death more acutely than the thousands they had fled from; or rather this death was the key to unlock
the anguish he felt for them all.
W hether the man had chosen to tell a fantastic lie as he died, or w hether this story was in some way true, M ick felt
useless in the face of it. His imagination was too narrow to encompass the idea. His brain ached with the thought of
it, and his comp assion cracked under the weight o f misery he felt.
They stood on the road, while the clouds scudded by, their vague, grey shadows passing over them towards the
enigmatic hills.
It was twilight.
Popolac could stride no further. It felt exhaustion in every muscle. Here and there in its huge anatomy deaths had
occurred; but there was no grieving in the city for its deceased cells. If the dead were in the interior, the corpses were
allowed to hang from their harnesses. If they formed the skin of the city they were unbuckled from their positions
and released, to plunge into the forest below.
The giant was not capable of pity. It had no ambition but to continue until it ceased.
As the sun slunk out of sight Popo lac rested, sitting on a small hillock, nursing its huge head in its huge hands.
The stars were coming out, with their familiar caution. Night was approaching, mercifully bandaging up the wounds
of the day, blinding eyes that had seen too much.
Popo lac rose to its feet again, and began to move, step by booming step. It would not be long surely, before fatigue
overcame it: before it could lie down in the tomb of some lost valley and die.
But for a space yet it must walk on, each step more agonizingly slow than the last, while the night bloomed black
around its head.
Mick wanted to bury the car-thief, somewhere on the edge of the forest. Judd, however, pointed out that burying a
body might seem, in tomorrow's saner light, a little suspicious. And besides, wasn't it absurd to concern themselves
with one corpse when there were literally thousands of them lying a few miles from where they stood?
The bo dy was left to lie, therefore, and the car to sink deeper into the ditch.
They began to walk again.
It was cold, and colder by the moment, and they were hungry. But the few houses they passed were all deserted,
locked and shuttered, every one.
"W hat did he mean?" said M ick, as they stood looking at another locked doo r.
"He was talking metaphor -, "All that stuff about giants?"
"It was some Trotskyist tripe -" Judd insisted.
"I don't think so."
"I know so . It was his deathb ed sp eech, he'd pro bab ly been prep aring for years."
"I don't think so," Mick said again, and began walking back towards the road.

"Oh, how's that?" Judd was at his back.
"H e wasn't toeing som e party line."
"Are you saying you think there's some giant around here som eplac e? For G od's sake!"
Mick turned to Judd. His face was d ifficult to see the twilight. But his voice was so ber with belief.
"Y es. I think he was telling the truth."
"T hat's absurd. T hat's ridiculo us. No."
Judd hated Mick that moment. Hated his naivet, his passion to believe any half-witted story if it had a whiff of
romance abo ut it. And this? This was the worst, the most preposterous .
"N o," he said a gain. "No . No. No."
The sky was porcelain smooth, and the outline of the hills black as pitch.
"I'm fucking freezing," said Mick out of the ink. "Are you staying here or walking with me?"
Judd sho uted: " W e're not go ing to find anything this way."
"W ell it's a long way back."
"W e're just go ing deeper into the hills."
"D o what you like - I'm walking."
His footsteps receded: the dark encased him. After a minute, Judd followed. The night was cloudless and bitter. They
walked on, their collars up against the chill, their feet swollen in their shoes. Above them the whole sky had become
a parade of stars. A triumph of spilled light, from which the eye could make as many patterns as it had patience for.
After a while, they slung their tired arms around each other, for comfort and warmth.
About eleven o'clock, they saw the glow of a window in the distance.
The wom an at the door of the stone cottage didn't smile, but she understood their condition, and let them in. There
seemed to be no purp ose in trying to explain to either the woman or her crippled husband what they had seen. The
cottage had no telepho ne, and there was no sign of a vehicle, so even had they found som e way to express
themselves, nothing could be done.
W ith mime s and face-pullings they explained that they were hungry and exhausted. T hey tried further to explain
they were lost, cursing themselves for leaving their phrase-book in the VW . She didn't seem to understand very
much of what they said , but sat them do wn be side a b lazing fire and p ut a pan of foo d on the stove to heat.
They ate thick unsalted pea soup and eggs, and occasionally smiled their thanks at the woman. Her husband sat
beside the fire, making no attempt to talk, or even look at the visitors.
The food wa s good . It buoyed their spirits.
They would sleep until morning and then begin the long trek back. By dawn the bodies in the field would be being
quantified, identified, parcelled up and dispatched to their families. The air would be full of reassuring noises,
cancelling out the moans that still rang in their ears. There would be helicopters, lorry loads of men organizing the
clearing-up operations. All the rites and paraphernalia of a civilized disaster.
And in a while, it wo uld be pala table. It would beco me p art of their history: a tragedy, of course, but one the y could
explain, classify and learn to live with. All would be well, yes, all would be well. Come m orning.
The sleep of sheer fatigue came on them sud denly. The y lay where they had fallen, still sitting at the table, their
heads on their crossed arms. A litter of empty bowls and bread crusts surrounded them.
They knew nothing. Dreamt nothing. Felt nothing.
Then the thunder began.
In the earth, in the deep earth, a rhythmical tread, as of a titan, that came, by degrees, closer and closer.
The woman woke he r husband . She blew out the lamp and went to the door. The night sky was luminous with stars:
the hills black on every side.
The thunder still sounded: a full half minute between every boom, but louder now. And louder with every new step.
They stood at the door together, husband and wife, and listened to the night-hills echo back and forth with the sound.
There was no lightning to accomp any the thunder.
Just the boom - Boom - Boom - It made the ground shake: it threw dust down from the
doo r-lintel, and rattled the window-latches.
Boo m - Boom - They didn't know what approached , but whatever shape it took, and whatever it intended, there
seemed no sense in running from it. Where they stood, in the pitiful shelter of their cottage, was as safe as any nook
of the forest. How could they choose, out of a hundred thousand trees, which would be standing when the thunder
had passed? B etter to wait: and watch.
The wife's eyes were not good, and she doubted what she saw when the blackness of the hill changed shape and
reared up to block the stars. But her husband had seen it too: the unimaginably huge head, vaster in the deceiving
darkness, looming up and up, dwarfing the hills themselves with its ambition.

He fell to his knees, babbling a prayer, his arthritic legs twisted beneath him.
His wife screamed : no wo rds she knew could keep this monster at b ay - no prayer, no plea, had power over it.
In the co ttage, M ick woke and his outstretched arm, twitching with a sudd en cramp, wiped the plate and the lamp off
the table.
They smashed.
Judd woke.
The screaming outside had stopped. T he woman had d isappeared from the doorway into the forest. Any tree, any
tree at all, was better than this sight. Her husband still let a string of prayers dribble from his slack mouth, as the
great leg of the giant rose to take another step -Boom -The cottage shook. Plates danced and smashed off the dresser.
A clay pipe rolled from the mantelpiece and shattered in the ashes of the hearth.
The lovers knew the noise that sounded in their substance: that earth-thunder.
Mick reached for Judd , and took him by the shoulder.
"You see," he said, his teeth blue-grey in the darkness of the cottage. "See? See?"
There was a kind of hysteria bubbling behind his words. He ran to the door, stumbling over a chair in the dark.
Cursing and bruised he staggered out into the night -Boo m -The thunder was deafening. This time it broke all the
windows in the cottage. In the bed room one of the roo f-joists cracked and flung debris do wnstairs.
Judd joined his lover at the door. The old man was now face down o n the ground, his sick and swollen fingers
curled , his begging lips p ressed to the damp soil.
Mick was looking up, towards the sky. Judd followed his gaze.
There wa s a plac e that sho wed no stars. It was a d arkness in the shape of a man, a vast, broad huma n frame , a
colossus that soared up to meet heaven. It was not quite a perfect giant. Its outline was not tidy; it seethed and
swarmed.
He seemed broader too, this giant, than any real man. His legs were abnormally thick and stumpy, and his arms were
not long. The hands, as they clenched and unclenched, seemed oddly-jointed and over-delicate for its torso.
Then it raised one huge, flat foot and placed it on the earth, taking a stride towards them.
Boom -The step brought the roof collapsing in on the cottage.
Everything that the car-thief had said w as true. Pop olac was a city and a giant; and it had gon e into the hills.
No w their eye s were beco ming accusto med to the night light.
They could see in ever more horrible detail the way this monster was constructed. It was a masterpiece of human
engineering: a man made entirely of men. Or rather, a sexless giant, made of men and women and children. All the
citizens of Popolac writhed and strained in the body of this flesh-knitted giant, their muscles stretched to breaking
point, their bones close to snapping.
They could see how the architects of Popolac had subtly altered the proportions of the human body; how the thing
had been made squatter to lower its centre of gravity; how its legs had been made elephantine to bear the weight of
the torso; how the head was sunk low on to the wide shoulders, so that the problems of a weak neck had been
minimized.
Despite these malformations, it was horribly life-like. The bod ies that were bound together to make its surface were
naked but for their harnesses, so that its surface glistened in the starlight, like one vast human torso. Even the
muscles were well copied, though simplified. They could see the way the roped bodies pushed and pulled against
each other in solid cords of flesh and bone. They could see the intertwined people that made up the body: the backs
like turtles packed together to offer the sweep of the pectorals; the lashed and knotted acrobats at the joints of the
arms and the legs alike, rolling and unwinding to articulate the city.
But surely the most amazing sight of all was the face.
Cheeks of bodies; cavernous eye-sockets in which heads stared, five bound together for each eyeball; a broad, flat
nose and a mouth that opened and closed, as the muscles of the jaw bunched and hollowed rhythmically. And from
that mouth, lined with teeth of bald children, the voice o f the giant, now only a weak c opy of its former p owers,
spoke a single note of idiot music.
Popo lac walked and Popo lac sang.
W as there ever a sight in Europ e the eq ual of it?
They watched, Mick and Judd, as it took another step towards them.
The old m an had wet his pants. Blubbering and begging, he dragged himself away from the ruined cottage into the
surrounding trees, dragging his dead legs after him.
The Englishmen remained where they stood, watching the spectacle as it approached. Neither dread nor horror
touched them now, just an awe that rooted them to the spot. They knew this was a sight they could never hope to see
again; this was the apex - after this there was only common experience. Better to stay then, though every step
brought death nearer, better to stay and se e the sight while it was still there to be seen. And if it killed them, this

monster, then at least they would have glimpsed a miracle, known this terrible majesty for a brief moment. It seemed
a fair exchange.
Popolac was within two steps of the cottage. They could see the complexities of its structure quite clearly. The faces
of the citizens were becom ing detailed: wh ite, sweat-wet, and content in their we ariness. Som e hung dead from their
harnesses, their legs swinging back and forth like the hange d. Others, children p articularly, had ceased to ob ey their
training, and had relaxed their positions, so that the form of the body was degenerating, beginning to seethe with the
boils of rebellious cells.
Yet it still walked, each step an incalculable effort of coordination and strength.
Bo om -T he step that trod the cottage came so oner than they thought.
Mick saw the leg raised; saw the faces of the people in the shin and ankle and foot - they were as big as he was now
- all huge men chosen to take the full weight of this great creation.
Many were dead. T he bo ttom o f the foot, he could see , was a jigsaw of crushed and bloo dy bo dies, pressed to death
under the we ight of their fellow citizens.
The foot descended with a roar.
In a matter of seconds the cottage was red uced to splinters and dust.
Popo lac blotted the sky utterly. It was, for a moment, the whole world, heaven and earth, its presence filled the
senses to overflowing. At this proximity one look could not encompass it, the eye had to range backwards and
forwards over its mass to take it all in, and even then the mind refused to accept the whole truth.
A whirling fragment of stone, flung off from the cottage as it collapsed, struck Judd full in the face. In his head he
heard the killing stro ke like a ball hitting a wall: a play-yard death. N o pain: no remorse. Out like a light, a tiny,
insignificant light; his death-cry lost in the pandemonium, his body hidden in the smoke and darkness. Mick neither
saw nor heard Judd die.
He was too busy staring at the foot as it settled for a moment in the ruins of the cottage, while the other leg mustered
the will to move.
Mick took his chance. Howling like a banshee, he ran towards the leg, longing to embrace the monster. He stumbled
in the wreckage, and stood again, bloodied, to reach for the foot before it was lifted and he was left behind. There
was a clamour of agonized breath as the message came to the foot that it must move; Mick saw the muscles of the
shin bunch and marry as the leg began to lift. He made one last lunge at the limb as it began to leave the ground,
snatching a harness o r a rop e, or human hair, or flesh itself - anything to catch this passing miracle and be part of it.
Better to go with it wherever it was going, serve it in its purpose, whatever that might be; better to die with it than
live without it.
He caught the foot, and found a safe purchase on its ankle. Screaming his sheer ecstasy at his success he felt the
great leg raised, and glanced down through the swirling dust to the spot where he had stood, already receding as the
limb climbed.
The earth was go ne from bene ath him. He w as a hitchhiker with a god : the mere life he had left wa s nothing to him
now, or eve r. He would live with this thing , yes, he wo uld live with it - seeing it and seeing it an d eating it with his
eyes until he died of sheer gluttony.
He screame d and howled and swung on the rop es, drinking up his trium ph. Below , far below , he glim psed Judd 's
body, curled up pale on the dark ground, irretrievable. Love and life and sanity were gone, gone like the memory of
his name, or his sex, or his ambition.
It all meant nothing. No thing at all.
Boom -B oom -Popo lac walked, the no ise of its steps receding to the east. Po polac wa lked, the hum o f its voice lost
in the night.
After a day, birds came, foxes came, flies, butterflies, wasps came. Judd moved, Ju dd sh ifted, Jud d gave birth. In his
belly maggots warmed themselves, in a vixen's den the good flesh of his thigh was fought over. After that, it was
quick. The bones yellowing, the bones crumbling: soon, an empty space which he had once filled with breath and
opinions.
Darkness, light, darkness, light. He interrupted neither with his name.

DREAD
TH ERE IS NO delight the equal of dread. If it were possible to sit, invisible, between two peop le on any train, in any

waiting ro om o r office, the conversation overheard wo uld time and again circ le on tha t subject. Certainly the debate
might appear to be about something entirely different; the state of the nation, idle chat about death on the roads, the
rising price of dental care; but strip away the metaphor, the innuendo, and there, nestling at the heart of the
discourse, is dread. While the nature of God, and the possibility of eternal life go undiscussed, we happily chew over
the minutiae of misery. The syndrome recognizes no boundaries; in bath-house and seminar-room alike, the same
ritual is repeated. With the inevitability of a tongue returning to probe a painful tooth, we come back and b ack and
back again to our fears, sitting to talk them over with the eagerness of a hungry man before a full and steaming plate.
W hile he was still at university, and afraid to speak, Stephen Grace was taught to speak of why he was afraid. In fact
not simply to talk abo ut it, but to analyze and dissect his every nerve ending, loo king for tiny terrors.
In this investigation, he had a teacher: Quaid.
It was an age of gurus; it was their season. In universities up and down England young men and wo men were
looking east and west for people to follow like lambs; Steve Grace was just one of many. It was his bad luck that
Quaid was the Messiah he found.
They'd met in the Student Common Room.
"The nam e's Quaid," said the man at Steve's elbow at the bar.
"O h."
"You're -?"
"Steve G race."
"Yes. You're in the Ethics class, right?"
"Right."
"I don't see you in any o f the other Philo sophy seminars or lectures."
"It's my extra subject for the year. I'm on the English Literature course. I just couldn't bear the idea of a year in the
Old No rse classes."
"So you plumped for Ethics."
"Y es."
Quaid ordered a double brandy. He didn't look that well off, and a double brandy would have just about crippled
Steve's finances for the next week. Quaid downed it quickly, and ordered another.
"What are you having?"
Steve was nursing half a pint of luke-warm lager, determined to make it last an hour.
"N othing for me."
"Y es you will."
"I'm fine."
"Another bran dy and a pint of lager for my friend ."
Steve didn't resist Quaid's generosity. A pint and a half of lager in his unfed system would help no end in dulling the
tedium of his oncom ing sem inars on "C harles D ickens as a So cial Analyst". H e yawned just to think o f it.
"So meb ody o ught to w rite a thesis o n drinking as a so cial activity."
Quaid stud ied his b randy a moment, then do wned it.
"Or as oblivion," he said.
Steve looked at the man. Perhaps five years older than Steve's twenty. The mixture of clothes he wore was
confusing. Tattered running shoes, cords, a grey-white shirt that had seen better days: and over it a very expensive
black leather jacke t that hung badly on his tall, thin frame. T he face was lon g and unrem arkab le; the eyes milkyblue, and so pale that the colour seemed to seep into the whites, leaving just the pin-pricks of his irises visible behind
his heavy glasses. Lips full, like a Jagger, but pale, dry and un-sensual. Hair, a dirty blond.
Quaid, Steve decided, could have passed for a Dutch do pe-pusher.
He wore no badges. They were the common currency of
a student's obsessions, and Quaid looked naked without
something to imply how he took his pleasures. Was he
a gay, feminist, save-the-whale camp aigner; or a fascist
vegetarian? What was he into, for God's sake?
"You should have been doing Old Norse," said Quaid.
"Why?"
"T hey do n't even bother to mark the papers on tha t course," said Qua id.
Steve hadn't heard about this. Quaid droned on.
"T hey just throw them all up into the air. Face up, an A. Face do wn, a B ."
Oh, it was a joke. Quaid was being witty. Steve attempted a laugh, but Quaid's face remained unmoved by his own

attempt at humour.
"Y ou sho uld be in Old Norse," he said again. " W ho needs B ishop Berkeley anyhow . Or P lato. O r -"
"Or?"
"It's all shit."
"Y es."
"I've watched you, in the Philosophy Class -"Steve began to wonder about Quaid.
"- You never take notes do yo u?" "No."
"I thought you were either sub limely co nfident, or you simply couldn't care less."
"N either. I'm just com pletely lost."
Quaid grunted, and pulled out a pack of cheap cigarettes. Again, that was not the done thing. You either smoked
Gauloises, C amel or nothing at all.
"It's not true philosophy they teach you here," said Q uaid, with unmistakab le contempt.
"Oh?"
"W e get spoon-fed a bit of Plato, or a bit of Bentham -no real analysis. It's got all the right markings of course. It
looks like the beast: it even smells a bit like the beast to the uninitiated."
"What beast?"
"Philosophy. True Philosophy. It's a beast, Stephen. Don't you think?"
"I hadn't -"
"It's wild. It bites."
He grinned , suddenly vulp ine. "Y es. It bites," he rep lied. O h, that pleased him. Again, for luck: "B ites."
Stephen no dde d. T he me tapho r was beyond him. "I think w e should feel mauled by o ur subject." Qua id
was warming to the whole subject of mutilation by education. "We should be frightened to juggle the ideas we
should talk ab out."
Why?"
"Because if we were philosophers worth we wouldn't be exchanging academic pleasantries. We wouldn't be talking
semantics; using linguistic trickery to co ver the real co ncerns."
"What would we be doing?"
Steve was beginning to feel like Qua id's straight man. exc ept that Quaid wasn't in a joking moo d. His face wa s set:
his pinp rick irises had clo sed d own to tiny do ts
W e should be walking close to the beast, Steve, do n't you think? Reaching o ut to stroke it, pet it, milk it-"
"What . . . er . . . what is the beast?"
Quaid wa s clearly a little exasperated by the p ragmatism of the enq uiry.
"It's the subject of any worthwhile philosophy, Stephen. it's the things we fear, because we don't understand them.
it's the dark b ehind the do or."
Steve thought of a door. Thought of the dark. He began to see what Quaid was driving at in his labyrinthine fashion.
Philosophy was a way to talk about fear.
"W e should discuss what's intimate to our p syches," said Q uaid. " If we do n't.. . we risk..."
Quaid's loquacio usness deserted him sudd enly.
"What?"
Quaid was staring at his empty brandy glass, seeming to will it to be full again.
"Want another?" said Steve, praying that the answer would be no.
"W hat do we risk? " Quaid re peated the question. "W ell, I think if we d on't go o ut and find the b east -"
Steve could see the punchline coming.
"- soo ner or later the b east will co me and find us."
There is no delight the equa l of dread. As long as it's someone else's.
Casually, in the following week or two, Steve made some enquiries about the curious Mr. Quaid.
Nobody knew his first name.
Nobody was certain of his age; but one of the secretaries thought he was over thirty, which came as a surprise.
His p arents, C heryl had hea rd him say, were dead . Killed, the thought.
That appeared to be the sum of human knowledge where Quaid was concerned.
"I owe you a drink," said Steve, touching Quaid on the shoulder.
He looked as though he'd been bitten.
"Brandy?"
"T hank you." Steve ordered the drinks. "D id I startle yo u?" "I was thinking."
"N o philosop her sho uld be without one."

"One what?"
"B rain."
They fell to talking. Steve didn't know why he'd approached Quaid again. The man was ten years his senior and in a
different intellectual league. He probably intimidated Steve, if he was to be honest about it. Quaid's relentless talk of
beasts confused him. Yet he wa nted m ore o f the same: more metapho rs: more of that humo urless vo ice telling him
how useless the tutors were, how wea k the students.
In Quaid's wo rld there were no certainties. H e had no sec ular gurus and certainly no religion. H e seem ed incapable
of viewing any system, whether it was political or philosophical, without cynicism.
Though he seldom laughed out loud, Steve knew there was a bitter humour in his vision of the world. People were
lambs and sheep, all looking for shepherds. Of course these shepherds were fictions, in Quaid's opinion. All that
existed, in the darkness outside the sheep-fold were the fears that fixed on the innocent mutton: waiting, patient as
stone, for their m ome nt.
Everything was to be doubted, but the fact that dread existed.
Quaid's intellectual arrogance was exhilarating. Steve soon came to love the iconoclastic ease with which he
demolished belief after belief. Sometimes it was painful when Quaid formulated a water-tight argument against one
of Steve's dogma. But after a few weeks, even the sound of the demolition seemed to excite. Quaid was clearing the
undergrowth, felling the trees, razing the stubble. Steve felt free.
Nation, family, Church, law. All ash. All useless. All cheats, and chains and suffocation.
There was only dread.
"I fear, you fear, we fear," Quaid was fond of saying. "He, she or it fears. There's no conscious thing on the face of
the world that d oesn't know dread more intimately than its own heartbeat."
One of Q uaid's favo urite baiting-victims w as ano ther Philosophy and Eng. Lit. student, Cheryl Fro mm. She would
rise to his m ore o utrageous remarks like fish to rain, and while the two of them took knives to each o ther's arguments
Steve would sit back and w atch the spectacle. Cheryl was, in Quaid's phrase, a p atholo gical optimist.
"And you're full of shit," she'd say when the debate had warmed up a little. "So who cares if you're afraid of your
own shadow? I'm not. I feel fine."
She certainly looked it. Cheryl Fromm was wet dream material, but too bright for anyone to try making a move on
her.
"W e all taste dread once in a while," Qua id would rep ly to her, and his m ilky eyes wo uld stud y her face intently,
watching for her reaction, trying, Steve knew, to find a flaw in her conviction.
"I don't."
"No fears? No nightmares?"
"No way. I've got a good family; don't have any skeletons in my closet. I don't even eat meat, so I don't feel bad
when I drive past a slaughterhouse. I don't have any shit to put on show. Does that mean I'm not real?"
"It me ans," Qua id's eyes were snak e-slits, "it mea ns your confid ence has something big to cove r."
"B ack to nightmares."
"B ig nightmares."
"B e specific: define your terms."
"I can't tell you what you fear."
"T ell me what you fear then."
Quaid hesitated. " Finally," he said, "it's beyond ana lysis."
"B eyond ana lysis, my ass!"
That bro ught an involun tary smile to Steve's lips. Cheryl's ass was indeed beyond analysis. The only respo nse was to
kneel down and worship.
Quaid was back on his soap-box.
"W hat I fear is perso nal to m e. It makes no sense in a larger context. The signs of my dread, the imag es my b rain
uses, if you like, to illustrate my fear, those signs are mild stuff by comparison with the real horror that's at the root
of my p erson ality."
"I've go t images," said Steve. "Pictures fro m child hood that m ake m e think of -" He stopp ed, regretting this
confessiona l alread y.
"What?" said Cheryl. "You mean things to do with bad experiences? Falling off your bike, or something like that?"
"Perhaps," Steve said. "I find myself, sometimes, thinking of those pictures. Not deliberately, just when my
concentration's idling. It's almo st as though my m ind went to them autom atically."
Quaid gave a little grunt of satisfaction. "Precisely," he said.
"Freud writes on that," sa id Cheryl.

"What?"
"Freud," Cheryl repeated, this time making a performance of it, as though she were speaking to a child. "Sigmund
Freud: you may ha ve hea rd of him."
Quaid's lip curled with unrestrained contempt. " Mother fixations d on't answer the p roblem. T he real terrors in me, in
all of us, are pre-p erson ality. Dread's there before we have any notio n of ou rselves as individuals. T he thum b-nail,
curled up on itself in the wo mb, feels fear."
"Y ou remem ber d o you?" said C heryl.
"M aybe," Q uaid replied, deadly serious.
"The womb?"
Quaid gave a so rt of half-smile. Steve thought the smile said: "I have know ledge you don't."
It was a weird, unpleasant smile; one Steve wanted to wa sh off his eyes.
"You're a liar," said Cheryl, getting up from her seat, and looking down her nose at Quaid.
"Perhaps I am," he said, suddenly the perfect gentleman.
After that the debates stopped.
No more talking a bout nightma res, no more deb ating the things that go bump in the night. Steve saw Q uaid
irregularly for the next month, and when he did Quaid was invariably in the company of Cheryl Fromm. Quaid was
polite with her, even deferential. He no longer wore his leather jacket, because she hated the smell of dead animal
matter. This sudden change in their relationship confounded Stephen; but he put it down to his primitive
understanding of sexual matters. He wasn't a virgin, but women were still a mystery to him: contradictory and
puzzling.
He was also jealous, though he wouldn't entirely admit that to himself. He resented the fact that the wet dream
genius was taking up so much of Quaid's time.
There was another feeling; a curious sense he had that Quaid was courting Cheryl for his own strange reasons. Sex
was not Quaid's motive, he felt sure. Nor was it respect for Cheryl's intelligence that made him so attentive. No, he
was co rnering her somehow; that was Steve's instinct. Cheryl Fromm was being ro unde d up for the kill.
Then, after a month, Quaid let a remark about Cheryl drop in conversation.
"She's a vegetarian," he said.
"Cheryl?"
"O f course, Cheryl."
"I know. She me ntioned it befo re."
"Y es, but it isn't a fad w ith her. She's passionate about it. Can't even bear to look in a butcher's windo w. She won 't
touch meat, smell me at -"
"Oh." Steve was stumped. W here was this leading?
"D read, Steve."
"Of meat?"
"T he signs are different from perso n to pe rson. S he fears meat. She says she's so healthy, so b alanced. Shit! I'll find-"
"Find what?"
"T he fear, Steve."
"Y ou're not going to . . .?" Steve did n't know how to voice his anxiety without so unding accusatory.
"H arm her?" said Q uaid. "No , I'm not go ing to harm her in any wa y. Any damage do ne to her will be strictly selfinflicted."
Quaid was staring at him almost hypnotically. "It's about time we learnt to trust one another," Quaid went on. He
leaned closer. "B etween the two of us -"
"Listen, I don't think I want to hear."
"W e have to touch the beast, Stephen."
"D amn the beast! I don't want to hear!"
Steve got up, as much to break the oppression of Quaid's stare as to finish the conversation.
"W e're friends, Stephen."
"Yes..."
"T hen respect that."
"What?"
"Silence. N ot a wo rd."
Steve nodded. T hat wasn't a difficult promise to keep. There was nob ody he could tell his anxieties to without being
laughe d at.
Quaid looked satisfied. He hurried away, leaving Steve feeling as though he had unwillingly joined some secret
society, for what purpose he couldn't begin to tell. Quaid had made a p act with him and it was unnerving.

For the next week he cut all his lectures and most of his se minars. No tes went un-cop ied, books unread, essays
unwritten. On the two occasions he actually went into the university building he crept around like a cautious mouse,
praying he wouldn't collide with Quaid.
He needn't have feared. The one occasion he did see Quaid's stooping shoulders across the quadrangle he was
involved in a smiling exchange with Cheryl Fromm. She laughed, musically, her pleasure echoing off the wall of the
History D epartment. The jealousy had left Steve altogether. He wo uldn't have been p aid to be so near to Q uaid, so
intimate with him.
The time he spent alone, away from the bustle of lectures and overfull corrid ors, gave Steve's mind time to id le. His
thoughts returned, like tongue to tooth, like fingernail to scab, to his fears.
And so to his childhood.
At the age of six, Steve had b een struck by a car. T he injuries were not p articularly bad, but co ncussio n left him
partially deaf. It was a pro found ly distressing expe rience for him; not und erstand ing why he was sudde nly cut off
from the world. It was an inexplicab le torment, and the child assumed it was eternal.
One moment his life had been real, full of shouts and laughter. The next he was cut off from it, and the external
world became an aquarium, full of gaping fish with grotesque smiles. Wo rse still, there were times when he suffered
what the doc tors called tinnitus, a roaring or ringing sou nd in the ears. His head would fill with the most outlandish
noises, whoops and w histlings, that p layed like sound -effects to the flailings of the outside world. At tho se times his
stoma ch wo uld churn, and a band of iron would be wrapp ed around his forehead, crushing his thou ghts into
fragments, dissociating head from hand, intention from practice. He would be swept away in a tide of panic,
completely unable to make sense of the world while his head sang and rattled.
But at night came the worst terrors. He would wake, sometimes, in what had been (before the accident) the
reassuring womb of his bedroom, to find the ringing had begun in his sleep.
His eyes would jerk open. His body would be wet with sweat. His mind would be filled with the most raucous din,
which he was locke d in with, b eyond hope of reprieve. N othing could silence his head , and nothing, it seemed, could
bring the world, the speaking, laughing, crying world back to him.
He was alone.
That was the beginning, middle and end of the dread. H e was absolutely alone with his cacophony. Locked in this
house, in this room, in this body, in this head, a prisoner of deaf, blind flesh.
It was almost unbearable. In the night the boy would sometimes cry out, not knowing he was making any sound, and
the fish who had been his parents would turn on the light and come to try and help him, bending over his bed making
faces, their soundless m ouths fo rming ugly shap es in their attempts to help. Their touches wo uld calm him at last;
with time his mother learned the trick of soothing away the panic that swept over him.
A week before his seventh birthday his hearing returned, not perfectly, but well enough for it to seem like a miracle.
The world snapp ed back into focus; and life began afresh.
It took several months for the boy to trust his senses again. He would still wake in the night, half-anticipating the
head-noises.
But though his ears would ring at the slightest volume o f sound , preventing S teve from going to ro ck co ncerts with
the rest of the students, he now sca rcely ever noticed his slight deafness.
He remembe red, o f course. Ve ry well. He cou ld bring bac k the taste of his panic; the feel of the iron band aro und his
head. And there was a residue of fear there; of the dark, of being alone.
But then, wasn't everyone afraid to be alone? To be utterly alone.
Steve had another fear now, far more difficult to pin down.
Quaid.
In a drunken revelation session he had told Q uaid abo ut his childhood , about the deafness, about the night terrors.
Quaid knew about his weakness: the clear route into the heart of Steve's dread. He had a weapon, a stick to beat
Steve with, should it ever come to that. Maybe that was why he chose not to speak to Cheryl (warn her, was that
what he wanted to do?) and certainly that was why he avoided Quaid.
The man had a look, in certain moods, of malice. Nothing more or less. He looked like a man with malice deep, deep
in him.
Maybe those fou r months of watching peop le with the sound turned down had sensitized Steve to the tiny glances,
sneers and smiles that flit across people's faces. He knew Quaid's life was a labyrinth; a map of its complexities was
etched o n his face in a thousand tiny expressions.
The next phase of Steve's initiation into Quaid's secret world didn't come for almost three and a half months. The
university broke for the summ er recess, and the students went their ways. Steve took his usual vacation job at his
father's printing works; it was long hours, and physically exhausting, but an undeniable relief for him. Academe had

overstuffed his mind, he felt force-fed with word s and ideas. T he print work sweated all of tha t out of him rapid ly,
sorting out the jumble in his mind.
It was a good time: he sc arcely thought of Qu aid at all.
He returned to cam pu s in the late Sep temb er. T he stude nts were still thin on the ground. Most of the courses didn 't
start for another week; and there was a melancholy air about the place without its usual melee of complaining,
flirting, arguing kids.
Steve was in the library, cornering a few important books before others on his course had their hands on them.
Books were pure gold at the beginning of term, with reading lists to be checked off, and the university book shop
forever claiming the necessary titles were on order. They would invariably arrive, those vital books, two days after
the seminar in which the author was to be discussed. This final year Steve was determined to be ahead of the rush for
the few copies of seminal works the library possessed.
The familiar voice spoke.
"Early to wo rk."
Steve looked up to meet Q uaid's pin-prick eyes.
"I'm imp ressed , Steve."
"What with?"
"Your enthusiasm for the job."
"O h."
Quaid smiled. "What are you looking for?"
"So mething on B entham ."
"I've got 'Principles of Morals and Legislation'.Will that do?"
It was a trap. No: that was absurd. He was offering a book; how could that simple gesture be construed as a trap?
"Come to think o f it," the smile broadened, "I think it's the library copy I've go t. I'll give it to you."
"T hanks."
"Good holiday?"
"Yes. Thank you. You?"
"V ery rewarding."
The smile had decayed into a thin line be neath his -"You've grown a moustache."
It was an unhealthy examp le of the spe cies. T hin, patchy, and dirty-b lond, it wandered back and forth unde r Q uaid's
nose as if looking for a way off his face. Quaid looked faintly embarrassed.
"Was it for Cheryl?"
He was definitely embarrassed now.
"W ell..."
"So unds like you had a good vacation."
The embarrassment was surmounted by something else.
"I've got some wonderful photographs," Quaid said.
"What of?"
"H oliday snaps."
Steve couldn't believe his ears. Had C. From m tamed the Quaid ? Holiday snaps?
"Y ou wo n't believe some of them ."
There was som ething of the Arab selling dirty postcards about Quaid's manner. W hat the hell were these
pho tographs? Split beaver shots o f Cheryl, caught reading Kant?
"I don't think of you as b eing a p hotographer."
"It's become a passion of mine."
He grinned as he said 'passion'. There was a barely-supp ressed excitem ent in his manner. He was positively
gleaming with pleasure.
"Y ou've go t to com e and see them ."
"I-"
"T onight. And pick up the B entham at the sam e time."
"T hanks."
"I've got a house for myself these days. Round the corner from the Maternity Hospital, in Pilgrim Street. Number
sixty-four. Some time after nine?"
"Right. Thanks. Pilgrim Street." Quaid nodded.
"I didn't know there were any habitable ho uses in P ilgrim Street."
"N umber sixty-four."

Pilgrim Street was on its knees. Most of the houses were already rubble. A few were in the process of being knocked
dow n. Their inside walls were unnaturally expo sed; pink and pale green w allpap ers, fireplaces o n upp er store ys
hanging over chasms of smoking brick. Stairs leading from nowhere to nowhere, and back again.
Number sixty-four stood on its own. The houses in the terrace to either side had been demolished and bull-dozed
away, leaving a desert of impacted brick-dust which a few hardy, and fool-hardy, weeds had tried to populate.
A three-legged white dog was patrolling its territory along the side of sixty-four, leaving little piss-marks at regular
intervals as signs of its ownership.
Quaid's house, though scarcely palatial, was more welcoming than the surrounding wasteland.
They drank some bad red wine together, which Steve had brought with him, and they smoked some grass. Quaid was
far more mellow than Steve had ever seen him before, quite happy to talk trivia instead of dread; laughing
occasionally; even telling a dirty joke. The interior of the house was bare to the point of being spartan. No pictures
on the walls; no decoration of any kind. Quaid's books, and there were literally hundreds of them, were piled on the
floor in no particular sequence that Steve could make out. T he kitchen and bathro om w ere primitive. T he whole
atmosphere was almost monastic.
After a couple of easy hours, Steve's curiosity got the better of him.
"W here's the holiday snaps, then?" he sa id, aware that he was slurring his wo rds a little, and no longer giving a shit.
"O h yes. M y expe riment."
"Experiment?"
"T ell you the truth, Steve, I'm not so sure I sho uld sho w them to you."
"Why not?"
"I'm into serious stuff, Steve."
"And I'm not ready for serious stuff, is that what you're saying?"
Steve could feel Quaid's technique working on him, even though it was transparently obvious what he was doing.
"I didn't say you weren 't ready -, "W hat the hell is this stuff?" "Pictures."
"Of?"
"Y ou remem ber C heryl." P ictures o f Cheryl. Ha.
"How could I forget?"
"She won't be coming b ack this term."
"O h."
"She had a revelation." Qua id's stare was basilisk-like.
"What do you mean?"
"She was always so calm, wasn't she?" Quaid was talking about her as though she were dead. "Calm, cool and
collected."
"Y es, I suppose she was."
"Poor bitch. A ll she wanted wa s a goo d fuck."
Steve smirked like a kid at Quaid's dirty talk. It was a little shocking; like seeing teacher with his dick hanging out of
his trousers.
"She spent some of the vacation here."
"Here?"
"In this house."
"You like her then?"
"She's an ignorant cow. She's pretentious, she's weak, she's stupid. But she wouldn't give, she wouldn't give a
fucking thing."
"You mean she wouldn't screw?"
"O h no, she'd strip off her knick ers soo n as loo k at you. It was her fears she would n't give -,"
Same old song.
"B ut I persuaded he r, in the fullness of time."
Quaid pulled out a b ox from b ehind a pile of philosophy b ooks. In it was a sheaf of black and white photogra phs,
blown up to twice postcard size. He passed the first one of the series over to Steve.
"I loc ked her away you se e, Steve." Q uaid was as unemo tional as a newsread er. "T o see if I could need le her into
showing her d read a little bit."
"What do you mean, locked her away?"
"U pstairs."
Steve felt strange. He could hear his ears singing, very quietly. Bad wine always made his head ring.
"I loc ked her away upstairs," Q uaid sa id again, "as an experiment. That's why I took this hou se. No neighbours to
hear."

No neighb ours to hear what?
Steve looked at the grainy image in his hand.
"Concealed camera," said Q uaid, " She never knew I was photographing her."
Photograph One was of a small, featureless room. A little plain furniture.
"T hat's the roo m. T op o f the house. W arm. A bit stuffy even. No noise."
No noise.
Quaid proffered Photograph Two.
Same room. Now most of the furniture had been removed. A sleeping bag was laid along one wall. A table.
A chair. A bare light bulb.
"That's how I laid it out for her."
"It loo ks like a cell."
Quaid grunted.
Photograph Three. The same room. On the table a jug of water. In the corner of the room, a bucket, roughly covered
with a tow el.
"What's the bucket for?"
"She had to piss."
"Y es."
"All amenities provided ," said Qua id. "I didn't intend to reduce he r to an animal."
Even in his drunken state, Steve took Quaid's inference.
He didn't intend to reduce her to an animal. However.
Pho tograph Four. O n the tab le, on an unpatterned plate, a slab of meat. A bone sticks out from it.
"Beef," said Quaid.
"B ut she's a veg etarian."
"So she is. It's slightly salted, well-cooked, good b eef." Photograph Five. The same. Cheryl is in the room. The
doo r is closed. She is kicking the door, her foo t and fist and face a blur o f fury.
"I put her in the room abo ut five in the morning. She
was sleeping: I carried her over the thresho ld myse lf.
Very romantic. She didn't know what the hell was go ing on."
"You locked her in there?"
"O f course. An experiment."
"She knew nothing about it?"
"We'd talked about dread, you know me. She knew what I wanted to discover. Knew I wanted guinea-pigs. She soon
caught on. O nce she realized what I was up to she calmed dow n."
Photograph Six. Cheryl sits in the corner of the room, thinking.
"I think she be lieved she co uld out-wait me ."
Photograph Seven. Cheryl looks at the leg of beef, glancing at it on the table.
"Nice photo, don't you think? Look at the expression of disgust on her face. She hated even the smell of cooked
meat. She wasn't hungry then, of course ."
Eight: she sleeps.
Nine: she pisses. Steve felt uncomfortab le, watching the girl squatting on the buc ket, knickers round her ankles.
Tearstains on her face.
Ten: she drinks water from the jug.
Eleven: she sleep s again, back to the ro om, curled up like a foetus.
"How long has she been in the room?"
"T his was o nly fourteen hours in. She lost orientation as to time very q uickly. N o light change, you see. Her bod yclock was fuck ed up pretty soon."
"How long was she in here?"
"I'lll the point was proved."
Tw elve: Awake, she cruises the m eat on the table, caught surrep titiously glancing down at it.
"This was taken the following morning. I was asleep: the camera just took pictures every quarter hour. Look at her
eyes..."
Steve peered more closely at the photograph. There was a certain desperation on Cheryl's face: a haggard, wild look.
The way she stared at the be ef she co uld have be en trying to hypno tize it.
"She looks sick."
"She's tired, that's all. She slept a lot, as it happened, but it seemed just to make her more exhausted than ever. She
doe sn't know now if it's day or night. And she 's hungry of course. It's been a day and a half. She's mo re than a little

peckish."
Thirteen: she sleeps again, curled into an even tighter ball, as though she wanted to swallo w herse lf.
Fourteen: she drinks more water.
"I rep laced the jug w hen she was asleep. She slept deeply:
I could have done a jig in there and it wo uldn't have woken he r. Lost to the world."
He grinned. Mad, thought Steve, the man's mad.
"Go d, it stank in there. You know how women smell sometimes: it's not sweat, it's something else. Heavy odo ur:
meaty. Bloody. S he came o n towards the end o f her time. Had n't planned it that way."
Fifteen: she touches the m eat.
"This is where the cracks begin to show," said Quaid, with quiet triumph in his voice. "This is where the dread
begins."
Steve studied the photograph closely. The grain of the print blurred the detail, but the cool mama was in pain, that
was for sure. Her face was knotted up, half in desire, half in repulsion, as she touched the food.
Sixteen: she was at the door again, throwing herself at it, every part of her body flailing. Her mouth a black blur of
angst, screaming at the blank door.
"She always ended up haranguing m e, whenever she'd had a co nfrontation with the meat."
"How long is this?"
"Coming up fo r three d ays. You're loo king at a hungry wom an."
It wasn't difficult to see that. The next photo she stood still in the middle of the room, averting her eyes from the
temptation of the food, her entire body tensed with the dilemma.
"Y ou're starving her."
"She can go ten days without eating quite easily. Fasts are common in any civilized country, Steve. Sixty per cent of
the B ritish populatio n is clinically o bese at any one time. She was too fat anyho w."
Eighteen: she sits, the fat girl, in her corner of the room, weeping.
"Abo ut now she began to hallucinate. Just little mental ticks. She thought she felt something in her hair, or on the
back of her hand . I'd see her staring into mid-air sometimes watching nothing."
Nineteen: she washes herself. She is stripped to the waist, her breasts are heavy, her face is drained of expression.
The meat is a darker tone than in the previous photographs.
"She washed he rself regularly. Ne ver let twelve hours go by witho ut washing from head to toe."
"T he me at looks. . ."
"Ripe?"
"D ark."
"It's quite warm in her little room; and there's a few flies in there with her. They've found the mea t: laid their eggs.
Yes, it's ripening up quite nicely."
"Is that part of the plan?"
"Sure. If the meat revolted when it was fresh, what about her disgust at rotted meat? That's the crux of her dilemma,
isn't it? The longer she waits to eat, the m ore disgusted she beco me s with what she's been given to feed o n. She's
trapped with her own horror of meat on the one hand, and her dread of dying on the other. Which is going to give
first?"
Steve was no less trapped now.
On the one hand this joke had already gone too far, and Quaid's experiment had become an exercise in sadism.
On the other hand he wanted to know how far this story ended. There was an undeniable fascination in watching the
woman suffer.
The next seven photographs - twenty, twenty-one, two, three, four, five and six pictured the same circular routine.
Sleeping, washing, pissing, meat-watching. Sleeping, washing, pissing -Then twenty-seven.
"See?"
She p icks up the meat.
Yes, she p icks it up, her face full of horror. The haunch of the beef looks well-ripened now, speckled with flies"
eggs. Gro ss.
"She bites it."
The next p hotograph, and her face is buried in the me at.
Steve seemed to taste the rotten flesh in the back of his throat. His mind found a stench to imagine, and created a
gravy o f putresc ence to run o ver his tongue. How could she do it?
Twenty-nine: she is vomiting in the bucket in the corner of the room.
Thirty: she is sitting looking at the table. It is empty. The water-jug has been thrown against the wall. The plate has
been smashed. The b eef lies on the floor in a slime of degeneration.

Thirty-one: she sleep s. Her head is lost in a tangle of arms.
Thirty-two: she is standing up. She is looking at the meat again, defying it. The hunger she feels is plain on her face.
So is the disgust.
Thirty-three. She sleep s.
"How long now?" asked Steve.
"Five days. No, six."
Six days.
Thirty-four. She is a blurred figure, ap parently flinging herself against a wall. P erhap s beating her head against it,
Steve couldn't be sure. He was past asking. Part of him didn't want to know.
Thirty-five: she is again sleeping, this time beneath the table. The sleeping bag has been torn to pieces, shredded
cloth and pieces of stuffing littering the room.
Thirty-six: she speaks to the door, through the door, knowing she will get no answer.
Thirty-seven: she eats the rancid meat.
Calm ly she sits und er the tab le, like a primitive in her cave, and pulls at the meat with her inc isors. H er face is again
expressionless; all her energy is bent to the purpose of the moment. To eat. To eat 'til the hunger disappears, 'til the
agony in her belly, and the sickness in her head disappear.
Steve stared at the photograph.
"It startled me," said Quaid, "how suddenly she gave in. One moment she seemed to have as much resistance as
ever. T he mo nologue at the door was the sam e mixture of thre ats and apologies as she'd delivered day in, day out.
Then she broke. Just like that. Squatted under the table and ate the beef down to the bone, as though it were a choice
cut."
Thirty-eight: she sleeps. The doo r is open. Light pours in.
Thirty-nine: the ro om is empty.
"Where did she go?"
"She wandered downstairs. She came into the kitchen, drank several glasses of water, and sat in a chair for three or
four ho urs witho ut saying a word ."
"Did you speak to her?"
"Eventua lly. When she started to come o ut of her fugue state. Th e exp eriment was o ver. I didn't want to hurt her."
"What did she say?"
"N othing."
"Nothing?"
"Nothing at all. For a long time I don't believe she was even aware of my presence in the room. Then I cooked some
potatoes, wh ich she a te."
"She didn't try and call the police?" "No."
"No violence?"
"No . She knew what I'd done, and why I'd done
it. It wasn't pre-planned, but we'd talked about such experiments, in abstract conversations. She hadn't come to any
harm, you see. She'd lost a bit of weight perhap s, but that was about all."
"Where is she now?"
"She left the day after. I don't know where she w ent."
"And what did it all prove?"
"N othing at all, perh aps. B ut it made an interesting start to my investigations."
"Start? This was only a start?"
There was plain disgust for Quaid in Steve's voice.
"Stephen -"
"Y ou co uld have killed her!"
"N o."
"She cou ld have lost her mind . Unb alanced he r perm anently."
"Possibly. But un likely. She was a stro ng-willed wom an."
"B ut you b roke her."
"Yes. It was a journey she was ready to take. We'd talked of going to face her fear. So here was I, arranging for
Cheryl to do just that. N othing much really."
"Y ou forced her to d o it. She would n't have go ne otherwise."
"T rue. It was an ed ucation for her."
"So now you're a teacher?"
Steve wished he'd been able to keep the sarcasm out of his voice. But it was there. Sarcasm; anger; and a little fear.

"Y es, I'm a teacher," Qua id rep lied, loo king at Steve obliquely, his eyes not focu sed. "I'm teaching people dread."
Steve stared at the floor. "Are you satisfied with what you've taught?"
"And learned, Steve. I've learned too . It's a very exciting pro spect: a world of fears to investigate. Esp ecially with
inteffigent sub jects. E ven in the face of rationalization -"
Steve stood up. "I don't want to hea r any more."
"O h? O K."
"I've go t classes early tomorro w."
"N o."
"What?"
A beat, faltering.
"N o. Don't go yet."
"W hy?" His he art was racing. H e feared Q uaid, he'd neve r realized how pro found ly.
"I've go t some more books to give you."
Steve felt his face flush. Slightly. What had he thought in that moment? That Quaid was going to bring him down
with a rugby tackle and start experimenting on his fears?
No. Idiot thoughts.
"I've go t a book on Kierkegaard yo u'll like. Upstairs. I'll be two minutes."
Smiling, Quaid left the room.
Steve squatted on his haunches and bega n to sheaf through the p hotographs again. It was the mom ent whe n Cheryl
first picked up the rotting meat that fascinated him most. Her face wore an expression completely uncharacteristic of
the woman he had known. Doubt was written there, and confusion, and deep -Dread.
It was Quaid's word. A dirty word. An obscene word, associated from this night on with Quaid's torture of an
innocent girl.
For a moment Steve thought of the expression on his own face, as he stared down at the photograph. Was there not
some of the same confusion on his face? And perhaps some of the dread too, waiting for release.
He heard a sound behind him, too soft to be Quaid.
Unless he was creeping.
Oh, God , unless he was -A pad o f chloroforme d cloth was clamp ed over Steve's
mouth and his nostrils. Involuntarily, he inhaled and the vapours stung his sinuses, made his eyes water.
A blo b of b lackne ss app eared at the co rner of the world, just o ut of sight, and it started to grow, this stain, pulsing to
the rhythm of his quickening heart.
In the centre of Steve's head he could see Quaid's voice as a veil. It said his name.
"Stephen."
Again.
"- ephen."
"- phen."
"- hen."
"en."
The stain was the world. The world was dark, gone away. Out of sight, out of mind.
Steve fell clumsily amongst the photograp hs.
W hen he woke up he was unaware of his consciousness. There was darkness everywhere, on all sides. He lay awake
for an hour with his eyes wide before he realized they were open.
Exp erimentally, he moved first, his arm s and his legs, then his head . He w asn't bound as he'd exp ected , excep t by his
ankle. T here w as definitely a chain or something similar around his left ankle. It chafed his skin when he tried to
move too far.
The floor beneath him was very uncomfortable, and when he investigated it more closely with the palm of his hand
he realized he was lying on a huge grille or grid of some kind. It was metal, and its regular surface spread in every
direction as far as his arms would reach. When he poked his arm down through the holes in this lattice he touched
nothing. Just empty air falling away beneath him.
The first infra-red photographs Quaid took of Stephen's confinement pictured his exploration. As Quaid had
expected the subject was being quite rational about his situation. No hysterics. No curses. No tears. That was the
challenge of this p articular subject. He knew precisely what was going on; and he would respond logically to his
fears. That wo uld surely make a more d ifficult mind to break than Cheryl's.
But how m uch m ore re ward ing the results would be when he did crack. W ould his soul not op en up then, for Q uaid

to see a nd touch? There wa s so much there, in the m an's interior, he wanted to study.
Grad ually Steve's eyes became accustomed to the da rkness.
He was imprisoned in what appeared to be som e kind of shaft. It was, he estimated, about twenty feet wide, and
completely round. Was it some kind of air-shaft, for a tunnel, or an underground factory? Steve's mind mapped the
area around Pilgrim Street, trying to pinpoint the most likely place for Quaid to have taken him. He could think of
nowhere.
Nowhere.
He was lost in a place he co uldn't fix or recognize. T he shaft had no corners to focus his eyes on; and the walls
offered no crack or ho le to hide his conscio usness
in.
W orse, he was lying spread-eagled on a grid that hung over this shaft. His eyes could make no impression on the
darkness beneath him: it seemed that the sha ft might be botto mless. A nd there was only the thin netwo rk of the grill,
and the fragile chain that shackled his ankle to it, between him and falling.
He pictured himself poised under an empty black sky, and over an infinite darkness. The air was warm and stale. It
dried up the tears that had suddenly sprung to his eyes, leaving them gummy. When he began to shout for help,
which he did after the tea rs had passed, the d arkness ate his words easily.
Having yelled himself hoarse, he lay back on the lattice. He couldn't help but imagine that beyond his frail bed, the
darkness went on forever. It was absurd, of course. Nothing goes on forever, he said aloud.
Nothing goes on forever.
And yet, he'd never know. If he fell in the absolute blackness beneath him, he'd fall and fall and fall and not see the
bottom of the shaft coming. Though he tried to think of brighter, more positive, images, his mind conjured his body
casca ding d own this horrible shaft, with the bo ttom a foot from his hurtling bo dy and his eyes no t seeing it, his b rain
not predicting it.
Until he hit.
Would he see light as his head was dashed open on impact? Would he understand, in the moment that his body
became offal, why he'd lived and died?
Then he though t: Quaid wouldn't dare. "W ouldn't dare!" he screeched. "W ouldn't dare!"
The dark was a glutton for words. As soon as he'd yelled into it, it was as though he'd never made a sound.
And then another thought: a real b add ie. Sup pose Quaid had found this circular hell to put him in b ecause it would
never be found, never be investigated? Ma ybe he wanted to take his experiment to the limits.
To the limits. Death was at the limits. And wouldn't that be the ultimate experiment for Quaid? Watching a man die:
watching the fear of death, the m other lode of dread, ap proach. Sartre ha d written that no m an co uld ever kno w his
own death. But to know the deaths of others, intimately to watch the acrobatics that the mind would surely perform
to avoid the bitter truth - that was a clue to death's nature, wasn't it? That might, in some small way, prepare a man
for his own de ath. T o live another's dread vicariously was the safest, cleverest wa y to touch the beast.
Yes, he thought, Quaid might kill me; out of his own tenor.
Steve took a sour satisfaction in that thought. That Quaid, the impartial experimenter, the would-be educator, was
obsessed with terro rs because his own d read ran deepest.
That was why he had to watch others deal with the ir fears. H e needed a solution, a way o ut for himself.
Thinking all this through took hours. In the d arkness Steve 's mind wa s quick-silver, but uncontrollab le. He found it
difficult to ke ep one train o f argum ent for very long . His tho ughts we re like fish, sm all, fast fish, wriggling out o f his
grasp as soon as he took a hold of them.
But underlying every twist of thought was the knowledge that he must out-play Quaid. That was certain. He must be
calm; prov e himself a useless subject for Quaid's analysis.
The pho tographs o f these ho urs showed Stephen lying with his eyes closed on the grid, with a slight frown on his
face. Occasionally, paradoxically, a smile would flit across his lips. Sometimes it was impossible to know if he was
sleeping or waking, thinking or dreaming.
Quaid waited.
Eventually Steve's eyes began to flicker under his lids, the unmistakable sign of dreaming. It was time, while the
subject slept, to turn the wheel of the rack -Steve woke with his hands cuffed together. He could see a bowl of water
on a plate beside him; and a second bowl, full of luke-warm unsalted porridge, beside it. He ate and drank
thankfully.
As he ate, two things registered. First, that the noise of his eating seemed very loud in his head; and second, that he
felt a construction, a tightness, around his temples.

The pho tographs show Stephe n clumsily reaching up to his hea d. A harness is strapp ed on to him, and lo cked in
place. It clamps plugs deep into his ears, preventing any sound from getting in.
The pho tographs show puzzlement. Then anger. Then fear.
Steve was deaf.
All he could hear were the noises in his head. The clicking of his teeth. The slush and swallow of his palate. The
sounds b oom ed betwe en his ears like guns.
Tears sprang to his eyes. He kicked at the grid, not hearing the clatter of his heels on the metal bars. He screamed
until his throat felt as if it was bleeding. He heard no ne of his cries.
Panic began in him.
The pho tographs showed its birth. His face was flushed. His eyes were wide, his teeth and gums exposed in a
grimace.
He looked like a frightened m onke y.
All the familiar, childhood feelings swept over him. He rememb ered them like the faces of old enemies; the
chittering limbs, the sweat, the nausea. In desperation he picked up the bowl of water and upturned it over his face.
The shock of the cold water diverted his mind momentarily from the panic-ladder it was climbing. He lay back down
on the grid, his b ody a board, and told himself to breathe deeply and eve nly.
Relax, relax, relax, he said aloud.
In his head, he could hear his tongue clicking. He could hear his mucus too, moving sluggishly in the panicconstricted passages of his nose, blocking and unblocking in his ears. Now he could detect the low, soft hiss that
waited under all the other noises. The sound of his mind -It was like the white noise between stations on the radio,
this was the same whine that came to fetch him under anaesthetic, the same noise that would sound in his ears on the
borders of sleep.
His limbs still twitched nervously, and he was only half-aware of the way he wrestled with his handcuffs, indifferent
to their edges sco uring the skin at his wrists.
The pho tographs recorded all these reactions precisely. His war with hysteria: his pathetic attempts to keep the fears
from resurfacing. H is tears. His blood y wrists.
Eventually, exhaustion won over panic; as it had so often as a child. How many times had he fallen asleep with the
salt-taste of tears in his nose and mouth, unable to fight any longer?
The exertion had heightened the pitch of his head-noises. Now, instead of a lullaby, his brain whistled and whooped
him to sleep.
Oblivion was good.
Quaid was disappointed. It was clear from the speed of his response that Stephen Grace was going to break very
soon indeed. In fact, he was as good as broken, only a few hours into the experiment. And Quaid had been relying on
Stephen. After months of preparing the ground, it seemed that this subject was going to lose his mind without giving
up a single clue.
One word, on e miserable word was all Q uaid needed. A little sign as to the nature of the experience. O r better still,
something to suggest a solution, a healing totem, a prayer even. Surely some Saviour comes to the lips, as the
personality is swept away in madness? There must be something.
Quaid waited like a carrion bird at the site of some atrocity, counting the minutes left to the expiring soul, hoping for
a mo rsel.
Steve woke face down on the grid. The air was much staler now, and the metal bars bit into the flesh of his cheek.
He was hot and uncomfortable.
He lay still, letting his eyes become accustomed to his surroundings again. The lines of the grid ran off in perfect
persp ective to meet the wall of the shaft. T he simp le netwo rk of criss-crossed bars struck him as pretty. Y es, pretty.
He traced the lines back and forth, 'til he tired of the game . Bored, he rolled over onto his back, feeling the grid
vibrate under his body. Was it less stable now? It seemed to rock a little as he moved.
Hot and sweaty, Steve unbuttoned his shirt. There was sleep-spittle on his chin but he didn't care to wipe it off. What
if he drooled? Who was to see?
He half pulled off his shirt, and using one foot, kicked his shoe off the other.
Shoe: lattice: fall. Sluggishly, his mind made the connection. H e sat up. Oh p oor shoe. His sho e would fall. It wo uld
slip between the bars and be lost. But no. It was finely balanced across two sides of a lattice-hole; he could still save
it if he tried.
He reached for his poor, poor shoe, and his movement shifted the grid.

The shoe began to slip.
"Please," he begged it, 'don't fall." He didn't want to lose his nice shoe, his p retty shoe . It mustn't fall. It mustn't fall.
As he stretched to snatch it, the shoe tipped, heel down, through the grid and fell into the darkness.
He let out a cry of loss that he couldn't hear.
Oh, if only he could listen to the shoe falling; to count the seconds of its descent. To hear it thud home at the bottom
of the shaft. At least then he'd know how far he had to fall to his death.
He couldn't endure it any longer. He rolled over on to his stomach and thrust both arms through the grid, screaming:
"I'll go too ! I'll go too!"
He couldn't bear waiting to fall, in the dark, in the whining silence, he just wanted to follow his shoe down, down,
dow n the dark shaft to extinctio n, and have the who le game finished once and fo r all.
"I'll go! I'll go! I'll go!" he shrieked. H e pleaded with gravity.
Beneath him, the grid moved.
Something had broken. A pin, a chain, a rope that held the grid in position had snapped. He was no' longer
horizontal; already he was sliding across the bars as they tipped him off into the dark.
With shock he realized his limbs were no longer chained.
He would fall.
The man wa nted him to fall. The bad m an - what was his name? Quake ? Quail? Qua rrel Automatically he seized the
grid with both hands as it tipped even further over. Maybe he didn't want to fall after his shoe, after all? Maybe life,
a little moment more of life, was worth holding on to -The dark beyond the edge of the grid was so deep; and who
could guess what lurked in it?
In his head the no ises of his panic multiplied. T he thumping of his blood y heart, the stutter of his mucus, the dry rasp
of his pa late. His palms, slick with sweat, were losing their grip. Gravity wanted him. It demanded its rights of his
body's bulk: demanded that he fall. For a moment, glancing over his shoulder at the mouth that opened under him, he
thought he saw monsters stirring b elow him. Ridiculo us, loony things, crudely drawn, dark on d ark. V ile graffiti
leered up from his childhoo d and uncurled their claws to snatch at his legs.
"Mama," he said, as his hands failed him, and he was delivered into dread.
"M ama."
That was the word . Qua id heard it plainly, in all its bana lity.
"M ama!"
By the time Steve hit the bottom of the shaft, he was past judging how far he'd fallen. The mo ment his hands let go
of the grid, and he knew the dark wo uld have him, his mind snapped . The animal self survived to relax his b ody,
saving him all but minor injury on impact. The rest of his life, all but the simplest responses, were shattered, the
piece s flung into the recesses o f his mem ory.
W hen the light came, at last, he looked up at the person in the Mickey M ouse mask at the door, and smiled at him. It
was a child's smile, one of tha nkfulness for his co mical rescuer. He let the man take him by the ankles a nd haul him
out of the big round room in which he was lying. His pants were wet, and he knew he'd dirtied himself in his sleep.
Still, the Funny Mouse would kiss him better.
His head lolled on his should ers as he was dragged o ut of the torture-chamb er. On the floor b eside his head was a
shoe. And seven or eight feet above him was the grid from which he had fallen.
It meant nothing at all.
He let the M ouse sit him do wn in a b right roo m. He let the M ouse give him his ears b ack, tho ugh he didn't really
want them. It was funny watching the world without sound, it made him laugh.
He drank some water, and ate some sweet cake.
He was tired. He wanted to sleep. He wanted his Mama. B ut the Mouse didn't seem to understand, so he cried, and
kicked the table and threw the plates and cups on the floor. Then he ran into the next room, and threw all the papers
he could find in the air. It was nice watching them flutter up and flutter down. Some of them fell face down, some
face up. Some were covered with writing. Some were pictures. Horrid pictures. Pictures that made him feel very
strange.
They were all pictures of dead people, every one of them. Some of the pictures were of little children, others were of
grown-up children . They were lying down, or half-sitting, and there were big cuts in their faces and their bod ies, cuts
that showed a mess underneath, a mish-mash of shiny bits and oozy bits. And all around the dead people: black
paint. N ot in nea t puddles, but splashed all around, and finger-marked , and hand-printed and very messy.
In three or four of the p ictures the thing that m ade the cuts was still there. H e knew the word for it.
Axe.
There was an axe in a lady's face buried almost to the handle. There was an axe in a man's leg, and another lying on

the floor of a kitch en be side a d ead baby.
This man collected pictures of dead people and axes, which Steve thought was strange.
That was his last thought before the too -familiar scent of chloroform filled his head and he lost consciousness.
The sordid doorway smelt of old urine and fresh vomit. It was his own vomit; it was all over the front of his shirt. He
tried to stand up, but his legs felt wo bbly. It was very cold. H is throat hurt.
Then he heard footsteps. It sounded like the Mouse was coming back. Maybe he'd take him home.
"G et up, son."
It wasn't the Mouse. It was a policeman.
"W hat are you doing d own there? I said ge t up."
Bracing himself against the crumbling brick of the doorway Steve got to his feet. The policeman shone his torch at
him.
"Jesus Christ," said the policeman, disgust written over his face. "You're in a right fucking state. Where do you
live?"
Steve shoo k his head, staring dow n at his vo mit-soaked shirt like a shamed schoolb oy.
"What's your name?"
He couldn't quite remember.
"Name, lad?"
He was trying. If only the p olicem an wo uldn't shout.
"Come on, take a hold of yourself."
The words d idn't make much sense. Steve co uld feel tears pricking the backs of his eyes.
"H ome."
Now he was blubbering, sniffing snot, feeling utterly forsaken. He wanted to die: he wanted to lie down and die.
The policeman shook him.
"You high on something?" he demanded, pulling Steve into the glare of the streetlights and staring at his tear-stained
face.
"Y ou'd better mo ve on."
"M ama," said Steve, "I want my M ama."
The words changed the encounter entirely.
Suddenly the policema n found the sp ectacle more than disgusting; more than pitiful. Th is little bastard , with his
bloo dsho t eyes and his dinne r down his shirt was really getting on his nerves. Too m uch m oney, too m uch dirt in his
veins, too little discipline.
"Mama" was the last straw. He punched Steve in the stomach, a neat, sharp, functional blow. Steve doubled up,
whimpering.
"Shut up, so n."
Ano ther blo w finished the job of crippling the child, and then he too k a fistful of Steve's hair and pulled the little
druggy's face up to meet his.
"You want to be a derelict, is that it?"
"N o. No."
Steve didn't know what a derelict was; he just wanted to make the policeman like him.
"Please," he said, tears coming again, 'take me home." The policeman seemed confused. The kid hadn't started
fighting back and calling for civil rights, the way most of them did. That was the way they usually ended up: on the
ground, bloody-nosed, calling for a social worker. This one just wept. The policeman began to get a bad feeling
abo ut the kid. Like he was mental or something. A nd he'd beaten the shit out of the little sno t. Fuck it. N ow he felt
responsible. He took hold of Steve by the arm and bundled him across the road to his car.
"G et in."
"T ake m e -"
"I'll take you hom e, son. I'll take yo u hom e."
At the Night Hostel they searched Steve's clothes for some kind of identification, found none, then scoured his body
for fleas, his hair for nits. The policeman left him then, which Steve was relieved about. He hadn't liked the man.
The peop le at the Hostel talked about him as tho ugh he wasn't in the room . Talked about ho w young he w as;
discussed his mental-age; his clothes; his appearance. Then they gave him a bar of soap and showed him the
showers. He stood under the cold water for ten minutes and dried himself with a stained towel. He didn't shave,
though they'd lent him a razor. H e'd forgo tten how to do it.
Then they gave him some old clothes, which he liked. They were n't such bad people, even if they did talk about him

as though he wasn't there. One of them even smiled at him; a burly man with a grizzled beard. Smiled as he would at
a dog.
They were odd clothes he was given. Either too big or too small. All colours: yellow socks, dirty white shirt, pinstripe trousers that had been made for a glutton, a thread-bare sweater, heavy boots. He liked dressing up, putting on
two vests and two pairs of socks when they weren't looking. He felt reassured with several thicknesses of cotton and
wool wrapped around him.
Then they left him with a ticket for his bed in his hand, to wait for the dormitories to be unlocked. He was not
impatient, like some of the men in the corridors with him. They yelled incoherently, many of them, their accusations
laced with obscenities, and they spat at each other. It frightened him. All he wanted was to sleep. To lie down and
sleep.
At eleven o'clock one of the warders unlocked the gate to the dormitory, and all the lost men filed through to find
themselves an iron b ed for the night. The dormitory, which wa s large and badly-lit, stank o f disinfectant and old
people.
Avo iding the eyes and the flailing arms o f the other dere licts, Steve found himself an ill-made bed , with one thin
blanket tossed across it, and lay down to sleep. All around him men were coughing and muttering and weeping. One
was saying his prayers as he lay, staring at the ceiling, on his grey pillow. Steve thought that was a good idea. So he
said his own child's prayer.
"Gentle Jesus, meek and mild,
Look upon this little child,
Pity my... What was the word?
Pity my - sim plicity,
Suffer m e to co me to thee."
That made him feel better; and the sleep, a balm, was blue and deep.
Quaid sat in darkness. The terror was on him again, worse than ever. His body was rigid with fear; so much so that
he couldn't even get out of bed and snap on the light. Besides, what if this time, this time of all times, the tenor was
true? What if the axe-man was at the door in flesh and blood? Grinning like a loon at him, dancing like the devil at
the top of the stairs, as Quaid had seen him, in dreams, dancing and grinning, grinning and dancing.
No thing moved. No creak of the stair, no giggle in the shadows. It wasn't him, after all. Qua id would live 'til
morning.
His body had relaxed a little now. He swung his legs out of bed and switched on the light. The room was indeed
empty. The house was silent. Through the open door he could see the top of the stairs. There was no axe-man, of
course.
Steve woke to shouting. It was still dark. He d idn't know how long he'd been asleep, but his limbs no lon ger ached so
bad ly. Elbo ws on his pillow, he half-sat up and stared dow n the dormitory to see what all the commotion was ab out.
Four b ed-rows d own from his, two men were fighting. The bone of contention was by no m eans clear. T hey just
grappled with each other like girls (it made Steve laugh to watch them), screeching and puffing each other's hair. By
moonlight the blood on their faces and hands was black.
One of them, the older of the two, was thrust back across his bed, screaming: "I will not go to the Finchley Road!
Yo u will not m ake m e. Do n't strike me! I'm not your man! I'm not!"
The other was beyond listening; he was too stup id, or to o ma d, to understand that the old man w as begging to be left
alone . Urged on by spectators on every side, the old man's assailant ha d taken off his sho e and was belabo uring his
victim with it. Steve could hear the crack, crack of his blows: heel on head. There were cheers accompanying each
strike, and lessening cries from the old man.
Suddenly, the applause faltered, as somebody came into the dormitory. Steve couldn't see who it was; the mass of
men crowded around the fight were between him and the door.
He did see the victor toss his shoe into the air however, with a final sho ut of "F ucker!"
The shoe.
Steve couldn't take his eyes off the shoe. It rose in the air, turning as it rose, then plummeted to the bare boards like a
shot bird. Steve saw it clearly, more clearly than he'd seen anything in many days.
It landed not far from him.
It landed with a loud thud.
It landed on its side. As his shoe had landed. His shoe. The one he kicked off. On the grid. In the room. In the house.
In Pilgrim Stre et.

Quaid woke with the same dream. Always the stairway. Always him looking down the tunnel of the stairs, while that
ridiculous sight, half-joke, half-horror, tip-toed up towards him, a laugh on every step.
He'd never dreamt twice in one night before. He swung his hand out over the edge of the bed and fumbled for the
bottle he kep t there. In the dark he swigged from it, deeply.
Steve walked past the knot of angry men, not caring about their shouts or the old man's groans and curses. The
warders were having a hard time dealing with the disturbance. It was the last time Old Man C rowley would be let in:
he always invited violence. This had all the marks of a near-riot; it would take hours to settle them down again.
Nob ody questioned Steve as he wandered down the corridor, through the gate, and into the vestibule of the Night
Hostel. The swing doors were closed, but the night air, bitter before dawn, smelt refreshing as it seeped in.
The po key reception office was empty, and through the door Steve could see the fire-extinguisher hanging on the
wall. It was red and bright: Beside it was a long black hose, curled up on a red drum like a sleeping snake. Beside
that, sitting in two brackets on the wall, was an axe.
A very pretty axe.
Stephen walked into the o ffice. A little distance away he heard running feet, shou ts, a whistle. B ut nob ody came to
interrupt Steve, as he made friends with the axe.
First he sm iled at it.
The curve of the blade of the axe smiled back.
Then he to uched it.
The axe seemed to like being touched. It was dusty, and hadn't been used in a long while. Too long. It wanted to be
picked up, and stroked, and smiled at. Steve took it out of its brackets very gently, and slid it under his jacket to keep
warm. Then he walked back out of the reception office, through the swing-doors and out to find his other shoe.
Quaid woke again.
It took Steve a very short time to orient himself. There was a spring in his step as he began to make his wa y to
Pilgrim Street. He felt like a clown, dressed in so many bright colours, in such floppy trousers, such silly boots. He
was a comical fellow, wasn't he? He mad e himse lf laugh, he was so com ical.
The wind bega n to get into him, whipp ing him up into a frenzy a s it scooted thro ugh his hair and mad e his eye-b alls
as cold as two lumps of ice in his socke ts.
He began to run, skip, dance, cavort through the streets, white under the lights, dark in between. Now you see me,
now you don't. No w you see me, now you -Q uaid hadn't been wo ken by the dre am this time. This
time he had heard a noise. Definitely a noise.
The mo on had risen high enough to throw its beams through the window, through the door and on to the top of the
stairs. There was no need to put on the light. All he needed to see, he could see. The top of the stairs were empty, as
ever.
Then the b ottom stair creaked, a tiny noise as though a breath had landed on it.
Quaid knew dread then.
Another creak, as it came up the stairs towards him, the ridiculous dream. It had to be a dream. After all, he knew no
clowns, no axe-killers. So how could that absurd image, the same image that woke him night after night, be anything
but a dream?
Yet, perhaps there were some dreams so preposterous they could only be true.
No clowns, he said to himself, as he sto od w atching the do or, and the stairway, and the sp otlight of the mo on. Q uaid
knew only fragile minds, so weak they couldn't give him a clue to the nature, to the origin, or to the cure for the
panic that now held him in thrall. All they did was break, crumble into dust, when faced with the slightest sign of the
dread at the heart of life.
He knew no clowns, never had, never would.
Then it appeared; the face of a fool. Pale to whiteness in the light of the moon, its young features bruised, unshaven
and puffy, its smile o pen like a child 's smile. It had bitten its lip in its ex citeme nt. Blo od w as smeared across its
lower jaw, and its gums were almost black with blood. Still it was a clown. Indisputably a clown even to its ill-fitting
clothes, so incongruous, so pathetic.
Only the axe didn't quite match the smile.
It caught the mo onlight as the maniac mad e small, chopping m otions with it, his tiny blac k eyes glinting with
anticipation of the fun ahead.
Almost at the top of the stairs, he stopped, his smile not faltering for a moment as he gazed at Quaid's terror.
Quaid 's legs gave out, and he stumb led to his knees.

The clown climbed ano ther stair, skipping as he did so, his glittering eyes fixed on Quaid, filled with a sort of benign
malice. The axe rocked back and forth in his white hands, in a petite version of the killing stroke.
Quaid knew him.
It was his pupil: his guinea-pig, transformed into the image of his own dread.
Him . Of all men. H im. The de af boy.
The skipping was bigger now, and the clown was making a deep-throated noise, like the call of some fantastical bird.
The axe was describing wider and wider sweep s in the air, ea ch mo re lethal than the last.
"Stephen," said Quaid.
The name meant nothing to Steve. All he saw was the mouth opening. The mouth closing. Perhaps a sound came
out: perhaps not. It was irrelevant to him.
The throat of the clown gave out a screech, and the axe swung up over his head, two-handed. At the same mom ent
the merry little dance became a run, as the axe man leapt the last two stairs and ran into the bedroom, full into the
spotlight.
Quaid's body half turned to avoid the killing blow, but not quickly or elegantly enough. The blade slit the air and
sliced through the b ack of Q uaid's arm, sheering off most of his triceps, shattering his humerus and o pening the flesh
of his lower arm in a gash that just missed his artery.
Quaid's scream could have b een he ard ten houses awa y, excep t that those house s were rubb le. Th ere wa s nob ody to
hear. Nobody to come and drag the clown off him.
The axe, eager to be about its business, was hacking at Quaid's thigh now, as though it was chopping a log. Yawning
wounds four or five inches d eep expo sed the shiny steak of the philosopher's muscle, the bone, the m arrow. W ith
each stroke the clown wo uld tug at the axe to pull it out, and Qua id's bod y would jerk like a pup pet.
Quaid screamed. Quaid begged. Quaid cajoled.
The clown didn't hear a word.
All he heard was the noise in his head: the whistles, the whoops, the howls, the hums. He had taken refuge where no
rational argument, nor threat, would ever fetch him out again. Where the thump of his heart was law, and the whine
of his blood was music.
How he danced, this deaf-boy, danced like a loon to see his tormentor gaping like a fish, the depravity of his intellect
silenced forever. How the blood spurted! How it gushed and fountained!
The little clown laughed to see such fun. There was a night's entertainment to be had here, he thought. The axe was
his friend forever, keen and wise. It could cut, and cross-cut, it could slice and amputate, yet still they could keep
this man alive, if they were cunning enough, alive for a long, long while.
Steve was happy as a lamb. They had the rest of the night ahead of them, and all the music he could possibly want
was sounding in his head.
And Qua id knew, meeting the c lown's vacant stare throu gh an air turned bloo dy, that there was worse in the wo rld
than dread. W orse than de ath itself.
There was pain without hope of healing. There was life that refused to end, long after the mind had begged the body
to cease. And worst, there were dreams come true.

HELL'S EVENT
HELL CAM E UP to the streets and squares of London that September, icy from the depths of the Ninth Circle, too
frozen to be warmed even by the swelter of an Indian summer. It had laid its plans as carefully as ever, plans being
what they were, and fragile. This time it was perhaps a little more finicky than usual, checking every last detail twice
or three times, to be certain it had every chance of winning this vital game.
It had never lacked competitive spirit; it had matched life against flesh a thousand thousand times down the
centuries, sometimes winning, more often losing. W agers were, after all, the stuff of its advancement. Without the
human urge to compete, to bargain, and to bet, Pandemonium might well have fallen for want of citizens. Dancing,
dog racing, fiddle-p laying: it was all one to the gulfs; all a game in which it might, if it played with sufficient wit,
garner a soul or two. That was why He ll came up to L ondon that bright blue day:
to run a race, and to win, if it could, enough souls to keep it busy with perdition another age.
Cam eron tuned his radio; the vo ice of the com mentator flared and faded as though he w as speaking fro m the P ole
instead of St P aul's Cathedral. It was still a good half-hour before the race be gan, but Cam eron wanted to listen to
the warm-up com mentary, just to hear wh at they were saying about his bo y.

". . . atmo sphere is electric. . . prob ably tens of thousands along the route. . ."
The voice disappeared: Cameron cursed, and toyed with the dial until the imbecilities reappeared.
"...been called the race of the year, and what a day it is! Isn't it, Jim?"
"It certainly is, M ike -"
"That's big Jim Delaney, who's up there in the Eye in the Sky, and he'll be following the race along the route, giving
us a bird's eye view, won't you, Jim?"
"I certainly will, M ike -"
"W ell, there's a lot of activity behind the line, the competitors are all loosening up for the start. I can see Nick Loyer
there, he's wearing numb er three, and I must say he's lo oking very fit. H e said to m e when he arrived he didn't
usually like to run on Sund ays, but he's made an ex ception for this race, b ecause of co urse it's a charity event, and all
the proceeds will be going to Cancer Research. Joel Jones, our Gold Medallist in the 800 metres is here, and he'll be
running against his great rival Frank M cCloud . And be sides the big bo ys we've got a smattering of new face s.
Wearing number five, the South African, Malcolm Voight, and completing the field Lester Kinderman, who was of
course the surprise winner of the maratho n in Austria last year. And I must say they all loo k fresh as daisies on this
superb September afternoon. Couldn't ask for a better day, could we Jim?"
Joel had woken with bad dreams.
"You'll be fine, stop fretting," Cameron had told him.
But he didn't feel fine; he felt sick in the pit of his stoma ch. N ot pre -race nerves; he was used to those , and he cou ld
deal with the feeling. Two fingers down the Throat and throw up, that was the best remedy he'd found; get it over
and do ne with. No, this wasn't pre-race nerves, or anything like them. It was deeper, for a start, as though his bo wels,
to his centre, to his source, were cooking.
Cam eron had no sympathy.
"It's a charity race, not the O lympics," he sa id, looking the boy o ver. "A ct your a ge."
That was Cameron's technique. His mellow voice was made for coaxing, but was used to bully. Without that
bullying there would have been no gold medal, no cheering crowds, no admiring girls. One of the tabloids had voted
Joel the best loved black face in England. It was good to be greeted as a friend by people he'd never met; he liked the
admiration, however short-lived it might turn out to be.
"T hey love you," said C ameron. "Go d kno ws why - they love yo u."
Then he laughed, his little cruelty over.
"Y ou'll be all right, son," he said. "Get out and run for your life."
Now, in the broad daylight, Joel looked at the rest of the field and felt a little more buoyant. Kinderman had stamina,
but he had no finishing power over middle distance. Marathon technique was a different skill altogether. Besides he
was so short-sighted he wore wire rimmed glasses so thick they gave him the look of a bemused frog. No danger
there. Loyer; he was good, but this wasn't really his distance either. He was a hurdler, and a sometime sprinter. 400
metres was his limit and even then he wasn't happy. Voight, the South African. Well, there was not much
information on him. Obviously a fit man to judge by the look of him, and someone to watch out for just in case he
sprung a surprise. But the real problem of the race was McCloud. Joel had run against Frank "Flash" McCloud three
times. Twice beaten him into second place, once (painfully) had the positions reversed. And Frankie boy had a few
scores to settle: especially the Olympics defeat; he hadn't liked taking the silver. Frank was the man to watch.
Charity race or no charity race McCloud would be running his best, for the crowd and for his pride. He was at the
line alrea dy testing his starting p osition, his ears p ractically pricked. Flash was the man, no do ubt of it.
For a moment Joel caught Voight staring at him. Unusual that. Competitors seldom even glanced at each other
before a rac e, it was a kind of coyness. The man's face was pale, and his hair-line was receding. H e looked to be in
his early thirties, but had a younger, leaner physiq ue. Lo ng legs, b ig hand s. A bo dy som ehow out o f prop ortion to his
head. W hen their eyes met, Voight looked away. The fine chain around his neck caught the sun and the crucifix he
was wearing glinted gold as it swung gently beneath his chin.
Joel had his good-luck charm with him too. Tucked into the waistband of his shorts, a lock of his mother's hair,
which she had plaited for him half a decade ago, before his first major race. She had returned to Barbad os the
following year, and died there. A great grief: an unforgettable loss. Without Cameron, he would have crumbled.
Cameron watched the prepa rations from the steps of the Cathedral; he planned to see the start, then ride his bike
round the b ack o f the Stran d to catch the finish. He'd arrive well before the comp etitors, and he could keep up with
the race on his radio. He felt good with the day. His boy was in fine shape, nausea or no nausea, and the race was an
ideal way to keep the lad in a competitive mood without over-stretching him. It was quite a distance of course,
across Ludgate Circus, along Fleet Street and past Temple Bar into the Strand, then cutting across the corner of

Trafalgar and down Whitehall to the Houses of Parliament. Running on tarmac too. But it was good experience for
Joel, and it would pressure him a little, which was useful. There was a distance runner in the boy, and Cameron
knew it. He'd never been a sprinter, he couldn't pace himself accurately enough. He needed distance and time, to find
his pulse, to settle down and to work out his tactics. Over 800 metres the boy was a natural: his stride was a model of
economy, his rhythm damn-near perfect. But more, he had courage. Courage had wo n him the gold, and courage
would take him first to the finish again and again. That's what made Joel different. Any number of technical whizzkids ca me and we nt, but without co urage to supplement those skills they went for almost nothing. To risk when it
was worth risking, to run 'til the pain blinded you, that was special and Cameron knew it. He liked to think he'd had
a little of it himself.
To day, the boy lo oked less than happy. W ome n troub le was C ameron's bet. The re were always problems with
women, especially with the golden boy reputation Joel had garnered. He'd tried to explain that there'd be plenty of
time for bed and bawd when his career had run out of steam, but Joel wasn't interested in celibacy, and Cameron
didn't altogether blame him.
The pistol was raised, and fired. A plume of blue-white smoke followed by a sound more pop than bang. The shot
woke the pigeons from the dome of St Paul's and they rose in a chattering congregation, their worship interrupted.
Joel was off to a goo d start. C lean, neat and fast.
The crowd began to call his name immediately, their voices at his back, at his side, a gale of loving enthusiasm.
Cameron watched the first two dozen yards, as the field jockeyed for a running order. Loyer was at the front of the
pack, though Cameron wasn't sure whether he'd got there by choice or chance. Joel was behind McCloud, who was
behind Lo yer. No hurry, boy, sa id Ca mero n, and slipped away from the starting line. His b icycle wa s chaine d up in
Paternoster Row, a minute's walk from the square. He'd always hated cars: godless things, crippling, inhuman,
unchristian things. W ith a bike you were your own master. Wasn't that all a man could ask?
"- And it's a superb start here, to what looks like a potentially marvellous race. They're already across the square and
the cro wd's going wild here: it really is more like the E urop ean G ames than a C harity Race. W hat do es it look like to
you, Jim?"
"W ell M ike, I can see cro wds lining the route all the way along Fleet Street: an d I've been asked by the p olice to tell
people please not to try and drive down to see the race, because of course all these roads have been cleared for the
event, and if you try and d rive, really you'll get now here."
"Who's got the lead at the moment?"
"W ell, Nick Loyer is really setting the pace at this stage in the game , though of course as we kno w there's going to
be a lot of tactical running over this kind of distance. It's more than a middle-distance, and it's less than a marathon,
but these men are all tacticians, and they'll each be trying to let the other m ake the running in the early stages."
Cameron always said: let the others b e heroes.
That was a hard lesson to learn, Joel had found. W hen the pistol was fired it was difficult not to go for broke, unwind
suddenly like a tight spring. All gone in the first two hundred yards and nothing left in reserve.
It's easy to be a hero , Cam eron used to say. It's not clever, it's not clev er at all. D on't waste yo ur time showing off,
just let the Superme n have their mo ment. Ha ng on to the pack, but hold back a little. Better to be cheered a t the post
because you won than have them call you a good-hearted loser.
W in. Win. Win.
At all costs. At almost all costs.
W in.
The man who doesn't want to win is no friend of mine, he'd say. If you want to do it for the love of it, for the sport of
it, do it with somebo dy else. Only public schoolboys believe that crap about the joy of playing the game. There's no
joy for losers, b oy. W hat did I say?
There's no joy for losers.
Be barbaric. Play the rules, but play them to the limit. As far as you can push, push. Let no other sonofabitch tell you
differently. You 're here to win. W hat did I say?
W in.
In Paternoster Row the cheering was muted, and the shadows of the buildings blocked the sun. It was almost cold.
The pigeons still passed o ver, unable to settle now they'd been ro used from their roo st. The y were the only o ccup ants
of the back streets. The rest of the living world, it seemed, was watching this race.
Cam eron unlocked his bicycle, pocketed the chain and pad-locks, and hopped on. P retty healthy for a fifty year o ld
he thought, despite the addiction to cheap cigars. He switched on the radio. Reception was bad, walled in by the
buildings; all crackle. He stood astride his bike and tried to improve the tuning. It did a little good.

"- and Nick Loyer is falling behind already -"
That was quick. Mind you, Loyer was past his prime by two or three years. Time to throw in the spikes and let the
younger men take over. He'd had to do it, though my God it had been painful. Cameron remembered acutely how
he'd felt at thirty-three, when he realized that his best running years we re over. It was like having one fo ot buried in
the grave, a salutary reminder of how quickly the body blooms and begins to wither.
As he pedaled o ut of the shado ws into a sunnier street a black M erced es, chauffeur-driven, sailed past, so quietly it
could have been wind-propelled. Cameron caught sight of the passengers only briefly. One he recognized as a man
Voight had been talking with before the race, a thin faced individual of about forty, with a mouth so tight his lips
might have been surgically removed.
Beside him sat Vo ight.
Impossible as it seemed it was Voight's face that glanced back out of the smoked glass windows; he was even
dressed for the race.
Cameron d idn't like the look of this at all. He'd seen the South African five minutes earlier, off and running. So who
was this? A double obviously. It smelt of a fix, somehow; it stank to high heaven.
The M ercedes was already disappearing around a corner. Cameron turned off the radio and pedaled pell-mell after
the car. The balmy sun made him sweat as he rode.
The M ercedes was threading its way through the narrow streets with some difficulty, ignoring all the One W ay signs
as it went. Its slo w passage m ade it relatively easy for Cameron to keep the vehicle in view without being seen b y its
occup ants, though the effort was beginning to light a fire in his lungs.
In a tiny, nameless alley just west of Fetter Lane, where the shadows were particularly dense, the Mercedes stopped.
Cameron, hidden from view round a corner not twenty yards from the car, watched as the door was opened by the
chauffeur and the lipless man, with the Voight look-alike close behind, stepped out and went into a nondescript
building. When all three had disappeared Cameron propped his bike up against the wall and followed.
The street was pin-drop hushed. From this distance the roar of the crowd was only a murmur. It could have been
another wo rld, this street. The flitting shado ws of birds, the windows of the buildings bricked up, the p eeling p aint,
the rotten smell in the still air. A dead rabb it lay in the gutter, a black rabbit with a white collar, someone's lost pet.
Flies rose and fell on it, alternately startled and ravenous.
Cameron crept towards the open door as quietly as he was able. He had, as it turned out, nothing to fear. The trio had
disappeared dow n the dark hallway of the house long since. The air was cool in the hall, and smelt of damp. Looking
fearless, but feeling afraid, Cameron entered the blind building. The wall-paper in the hallway was shit-coloured, the
paint the same. It was like walking into a bowel; a dead man's bowel, cold and shitty. Ahead, the stairway had
collapsed, preventing access to the upper storey. They had not gone up, but down.
The door to the cellar was adjacent to the defunct staircase, and Cameron could hear voices from below.
No time like the present, he thought, and op ened the do or sufficiently to squeeze into the d ark beyond. It was icy.
No t just cold , not da mp, b ut refrigerated. F or a m ome nt he thought he'd stepped into a cold storage roo m. His breath
became a mist at his lips: his teeth wanted to chatter.
Can't turn back now, he thought, and started down the frost-slick steps. It wasn't impossibly dark. At the bottom of
the flight, a long way down, a pale light flickered, its uninspired glow aspiring to the day. Cameron glanced
longingly round at the open door behind him. It looked extremely tempting, but he was curious, so curious. There
was nothing to do but descend.
In his nostrils the scent of the place teased. He had a lousy sense of smell, and a worse palate, as his wife was fond
of reminding him. She'd say he couldn't distinguish between garlic and a rose, and it was probably true. But the
smell in this deep meant something to him, something that stirred the acid in his belly into life.
Goats. It smelt, ha, he wanted to tell her then and there how he'd rem embe red, it smelt of goats.
He was almost at the bottom of the stairs, twenty, maybe thirty, feet underground. The voices were still some
distance away, behind a second door.
He was standing in a little chamber, its walls badly white-washed and scrawled with obscene graffiti, mostly pictures
of the sex-act. O n the floo r, a candelab ra, seven forked. Only two o f the dingy cand les were lit, and they b urned with
a guttering flame that was almost blue. The goaty smell was stronger now: and mingled with a scent so sickly-sweet
it belonged in a Turkish b rothel.
Two d oors led off the chamber, and from behind one Cameron heard the conversation continuing. With scrupulous
caution he crossed the slippery floor to the door, straining to make sense of the murmuring voices. There was an
urgency in them.

"- hurry -"
"- the right skills -""children, children -"Laughter.
"I believe we - tomo rrow - all of us -"
Laughter again.
Suddenly the voices seemed to change direction, as if the speakers were moving back towards the door. Cameron
took three steps back across the icy floor, almost colliding with the candelabra. The flames spat and whispered in the
chamber as he passed.
He had to choose either the stairs or the other door. The stairs represented utter retreat. If he climbed them he'd be
safe, but he would never know. Never know why the cold, why the blue flames, why the smell of goats. The door
was a chance. Back to it, his eyes on the do or oppo site, he fought with the bitingly co ld bra ss hand le. It turned with
some tussling, and he ducked out of sight as the do or oppo site opened . The two m ovements were p erfectly
syncopated:
God was with him.
Even as he closed the do or he knew he'd ma de an error. God wasn't with him at all.
Needles of cold penetrated his head, his teeth, his eyes, his fingers. He felt as though he'd been thrown naked into the
heart of an iceberg. His blood seemed to stand still in his veins: the spit on his tongue crystallized: the mucus on the
lining of his nose pricked as it turned to ice. The cold seemed to cripple him: he couldn't even turn round.
Barely able to mo ve his jo ints, he fumbled for his ciga rette lighter with fingers so num b they could have b een cut off
without him feeling it.
The lighter was already glued to his hand, the sweat on his fingers had turned to frost. H e tried to ignite it, against
the dark, against the cold. Reluctantly it sparked into a spluttering half-life.
The room was large: an ice-cavern. Its walls, its encrusted roof, sparkled and shone. Stalactites of ice, lance-sharp,
hung over his head. The floor on which he stood, poised uncertainly, was raked towards a hole in the middle of the
room. Five or six feet across, its edges and walls were so lined with ice it seemed as though a river had been arrested
as it poured d own into the darkness.
He thought of X anad u, a po em he knew by heart.
Visions of another Albion -"Where AIph the sacred river ran, Through caverns measureless to man, Down to a
sunless se a."
If there was indeed a sea down there, it was a frozen sea. It was death forever.
It was as much as he could do to keep upright, to prevent himself from sliding down the incline towards the
unkno wn. T he lighter flickered as an icy air blew it out.
"Shit," said Cameron as he was plunged into darkness. Whether the word alerted the trio outside, or whether God
deserted him totally at that moment and invited them to open the door, he would never know. But as the door swung
wide it pushed Cameron off his feet. Too numb and too frozen to prevent his fall he collapsed to the ice floor as the
smell of the goat wafted into the room.
Cameron half turned. Voight's double was at the door, as was the chauffeur, and the third man in the Mercedes. He
wore a coat apparently made of several goat-skins. The hooves and the horns still hung from it. The blood on its fur
was brown and gumm y.
"W hat are you doing here, Mr. Cameron?" asked the goat-coated man.
Cam eron could barely speak . The only fee ling left in his hea d was a pin-p oint of agony in the mid dle of his
forehead.
"W hat the hell is going on?" he said, through lips almost too frozen to move.
"Precisely tha t, Mr. Cam eron," the m an rep lied. "H ell is going on."
As they ran past St Mary-le-Strand, Loyer glanced behind him, and stumbled. Joel, a full three metres behind the
leaders, knew the man was giving up. So quickly too; there was something amiss. He slackened his pace, letting
McCloud and V oight pass him. N o great hurry. Kinderman was quite a way b ehind, unab le to comp ete with these
fast boys. He was the tortoise in this race, for sure. Loyer was overtaken by McCloud, then Voight, and finally Jones
and Kinderman. His breath had suddenly deserted him, and his legs felt like lead. Wo rse, he was seeing the tarmac
unde r his running shoes creaking and cracking , and fingers, like loveless children , seeking up out of the ground to
touch him. Nobod y else was seeing them, it seemed. The crowd s just roared on, while these illusory hands broke out
of their tarmac graves and secured a hold on him. He collapsed into their dead arms exhausted, his youth broken and
his strength spent. The enquiring fingers of the dead continued to pluck at him, long after the doctors had removed
him from the track, examined him and sedated him.
He knew why, of course, lying there on the hot tarmac while they had their pricking way with him. He'd looked

behind him. That's what had made them come. He'd looked -"And after Loyer's sensational collapse, the race is open
wide. Frank the Flash M cClo ud is setting the pace no w, and he's really speeding awa y from the new boy, V oight.
Joel Jones is even further behind, he doesn't seem to be keeping up with the leaders at all. What do you think, Jim?"
"W ell he's either pooped already, or he's really taking a chance that they'll exhaust themselves. Remember he's new
over this distance -"
"Y es, Jim -"
"And that might make him careless. Certainly he's going to have to do a lot of work to improve on his present
position in third place ."
Joel felt giddy. For a moment, as he'd watched Loyer begin to lose his grip on the race, he'd heard the man praying
out loud. P raying to Go d to save him. He'd been the only one wh o heard the words
-"Yea, though I walk through the shadows of the Valley of Death I shall fear no evil, for thou art with me, thy rod
and thy staff they -"
The sun was hotter now, and Joel was beginning to feel the familiar voices of his tiring limbs. Running on tarmac
was hard o n the feet, hard o n the joints. Not that that wo uld m ake a ma n take to p raying. He tried to put Loyer's
desperation out of his mind, and concentrate on the matter in hand.
There was still a lot of running to do, the race w as not even ha lf over. Plenty of time to catch up with the heroes:
plenty of time.
As he ran, his brain idly turned over the prayers his mother had taught him in case he should need one, but the years
had eroded them: they were all but gone.
"M y name ," said the goat-coated man, "is G regory Burgess. M emb er of P arliament. You wo uldn't kno w me. I try to
keep a low p rofile."
"M P?" said Ca meron.
"Y es. Independent. Very indep endent."
"Is that Voight's brother?"
Burgess glanced at Voight's other self. He was not even shivering in the intense cold, despite the fact that he was
only wearing a thin singlet and sho rts.
"B rother?" Burgess said. "N o, no. He is m y - what is the word? Familiar."
The word rang a bell, but Cameron wasn't well-read. Wha t was a familiar?
"Show him," said Burgess magnanimously. Voight's face shook, the skin seeming to shrivel, the lips curling back
from the teeth, the teeth melting into a white wax that poured down a gullet that was itself transfiguring into a
column of shimmering silver. The face was no longer human, no longer even mammalian. It had become a fan of
knives, their blad es glistening in the ca ndleligh t through the door. Even as this bizarrerie became fixed, it started to
change again, the knives melting and darkening, fur sprouting, eyes appearing and swelling to balloon size.
Antennae leapt from this new head, mandibles were extruded from the pulp of transfiguration, and the head of a bee,
huge and perfectly intricate, now sat on Voight's neck.
Burge ss obviously enjo yed the display; he ap plauded with gloved hands.
"Familiars both," he said, gesturing to the chauffeur, who had rem oved the cap, and let a welter of auburn hair fall to
her shoulders. She was ravishingly beautiful, a face to give your life for. But an illusion, like the other. No doubt
capable of infinite personae.
"T hey're bo th mine, of course," said Burgess proudly.
"What?" was all Cameron could manage; he hoped it stood for all the questions in his head.
"I serve H ell, Mr. Cam eron. And in its turn Hell serves me."
"Hell?"
"Behind you, one of the entrances to the Ninth Circle. You know your Dante, I presume?
"Lo! Dis; and lo! the place
Where thou hast need to arm thy heart with strength.""
"Why are you here?"
"T o run this race. Or rather my third fam iliar is alread y running the race. He will not be bea ten this time. This time it
is Hell's event, M r. Cam eron, and we shall no t be cheated of the prize."
"Hell," said Cameron again.
"You believe don't you? You're a good church-goer. Still pray before you eat, like any God-fearing soul. Afraid of
choking on your dinner."
"How do you know I pray?"

"Yo ur wife told me. Oh, your wife was very informative about you, Mr. Cameron, she really opened up to me. Very
accommodating. A confirmed analyst, after my attentions. She gave me so much . . . information. You're a good
Soc ialist, aren't you, like your father."
"Politics now -"
"O h, politics is the hub of the issue , Mr. Cam eron. W ithout politics we're lost in a wilderness, aren't we? Even He ll
need s order. Nine great circles: a pecking order of pun ishments. Loo k down; see for yourself."
Cameron co uld feel the hole at his back: he didn't need to look.
"We stand for order, you know. Not chaos. That's just heavenly propaganda. And you know what we'll win?"
"It's a charity race."
"Charity is the least of it. We're not running this race to save the world from cancer. We're running it for
gove rnment."
Cam eron half-grasp ed the point.
"Government," he said.
"Once every century this race is run from St Paul's to the Palace of Westminster. Often it has been run at the dead of
night, unheralded, unapplauded. To day it is run in full sunshine, watched by thousands. But whatever the
circumstance, it is always the same race. Your athletes, against one of ours. If you win, another hundred years of
dem ocracy. If we win . . . as we will . . . the end of the world as you know it."
At his back Cameron felt a vibration. The expression on Burgess" face had abruptly changed; the confidence had
become cloud ed, the smugness wa s instantly rep laced by a loo k of nervous excitem ent.
"Well, well," he said, his hands flapping like birds. "It seems we are about to be visited by higher powers. How
flattering -"
Cameron turned, and peered over the edge of the hole. It didn't matter how curious he was now. They had him; he
may as well see all there was to see.
A wave of icy air blew up from the sunless circle and in the darkness of the shaft he could see a shape approaching.
Its movement was steady, and its face was thrown back to look at the world.
Cameron co uld hear its breathing, see the wound of its features open and close in the murk, oily bone locking and
unlocking like the face of a crab.
Burgess was on his knees, the two familiars flat on the floor to either side of him, faces to the ground.
Cameron knew he would have no other chance. He stood up, his limbs hardly in his control, and blundered towards
Burgess, whose eyes were closed in reverent prayer. More by accident than intention his knee caught Burgess under
the jaw as he passed, and the man was sent sprawling. Cameron's soles slid on the floor out of the ice-cavern and
into the candlelit chamber beyond.
Behind him, the room was filling with smoke and sighs, and Cameron, like Lot's wife fleeing from the destruction of
Sodom, glanced back just once to see the forbidden sight behind him.
It was em erging from the shaft, its grey bulk filling the hole, lit by so me radianc e from below. Its eyes, d eep-set in
the naked b one of its elephantine head, met C amero n's through the open door. They seem ed to touch him like a kiss,
entering his thoughts through his eyes.
He was not turned to salt. Pulling his curious glance away from the face, he skated across the ante-chamber and
started to climb the stairs two and three at a time, falling and climbing, falling and climbing. The door was still ajar.
Beyond it, daylight and the world.
He flung the door open and collapsed into the hallway, feeling the warmth already beginning to wake his frozen
nerves. There was no noise on the stairs behind him: clearly they were too in awe of their fleshless visitor to follow
him. He ha uled himself along the wall of the hallway, his body wracked with shivers and chatterings.
Still they didn't follow.
Outside the day was blindingly bright, and he began to feel the exhilaration of escape. It was like nothing he'd ever
felt before. To have bee n so clo se, yet survived. G od had been with him after all.
He staggered along the road back to his bicycle, determined to stop the race, to tell the world -His bike was
untouched , its handlebars warm as his wife's arms.
As he hooked his leg ov er, the look he had exchanged with Hell caught fire. His b ody, ign orant of the heat in his
brain, continued ab out its business for a moment, putting its feet o n the pedals and starting to rid e away.
Cameron felt the ignition in his head and knew he was dead.
The look, the glance behind him -Lot's wife.
Like Lot's stupid wife -The lightning leapt between his ea rs: faster than thought.
His skull cracked, and the lightning, white-hot, shot out from the furnace of his brain. His eyes withered to black

nuts in his sockets, he belched light from mouth and nostrils. The combustion turned him into a column of black
flesh in a matter of seconds, without a flame or a wisp of smoke.
Cameron's body was comp letely incinerated by the time the bicycle careered off the road and crashed through the
tailor's shop window, where it lay like a dummy, face down amo ngst the ashen suits. He, too, had looked back.
The crowds at Trafalgar Square were a seething mass of en thusiasm . Cheers, tears and flag s. It was as though this
little race had become something special for these people:
a ritual the significance of which they could not know. Yet somewhere in them they understood the day was laden
with sulphur, they sensed their lives stood on tiptoe to reach heaven. Especially the children. They ran along the
route, shouting incoherent blessings, their faces squeezed up with their fears. Some called his name.
"Jo el! Joel!"
Or did he imagine that? Had he imagined, too, the prayer from Loyer's lips, and the signs in the radiant faces of the
babies held high to watch the runners pass?
As they turned into Whitehall Frank McCloud glanced confidentially over his shoulder and Hell took him.
It was sudden: it was simple.
He stumbled, an icy hand in his chest crushing the life out of him. Joel slowed as he approached the man. His face
was purple: his lips foamy.
"McC loud," he said, and stopped to stare in his great rival's thin face.
McClo ud looked up at him from be hind a veil of smoke that had turned his grey eye s ochre. Joel reached dow n to
help him.
"Don't touch me," McCloud growled. The filament vessels in his eyes bulged and bled.
"Cramp?" asked Joel. "Is it cramp?"
"Run, you bastard, run," McCloud w as saying at him, as the hand in his innards seized his life out. He was oozing
blood through the pores on his face now, weeping red tears. "Run. And don't look back. For Christ's sake, don't look
back."
"What is it?"
"Run for yo ur life!"
The words we ren't requests but imperatives.
Run.
Not for gold or glory. Just to live.
Joel glanced up, suddenly aware that there was some huge-headed thing at his back, cold breath on his neck.
He picked up his heels and ran.
"- Well, things aren't going so well for the runners here, Jim. After Loyer going down so sensationally, now Frank
McCloud has stumbled too. I've never seen anything quite like it. But he seems to have had a few words with Joel
Jones as he ran past, so he must be OK."
McC loud was dead by the time they put him in the ambulance, and putrefied by the following morning.
Joel ran. Jesus, did he run. T he sun had becom e ferocious in his face, washing the colour out of the cheering crow ds,
out of the faces, out of the flags. Everything w as one sheet of noise, draine d of hu manity.
Joel knew the feeling that was coming over him, the sense of dislocation that accompanied fatigue and overoxygenation. He was running in a bubble of his own consciousness, thinking, sweating, suffering by himself, for
himself, in the nam e of him self.
And it wasn't so bad, this being alone. Songs began to fill his head: snatches of hymns, sweet phrases from love
songs, dirty rhymes. His self idled, and his dream-mind, unnamed and fearless, took over.
Ahead, washed by the same white rain of light, was Voight. That was the enemy, that was the thing to be surpassed.
Voight, with his shining crucifix roc king in the sun. He could do it, as long as he didn't lo ok, as lo ng as he didn't
look -Behind him.
Burgess opened the do or of the Mercedes and climbed in. Time had been wasted: valuable time. He should be at the
Houses of Parliament, at the finishing line, ready to welcome the runners home. There was a scene to play, in which
he would pretend the mild and smiling face of democracy. And tomorrow? Not so mild.
His ha nds were clammy with excitement, and his p instripe su it smelt of the goat-skin coat he was oblige d to wear in
the room. Still, nobody would notice; and even if they did what English-man would be so impo lite to mention that he
smelt go aty?
He hated the Lower Chamber, the perpetual ice, that damn yawning hole with its distant sound of loss. But all that
was over no w. He'd made his o blation s, he'd sho wn his utter and ceaseless adoratio n of the p it; now it was time to
reap the rewards.

As they drove, he thought of his many sacrifices to ambition. At first, minor stuff: kittens and cockerels. Later, he
was to discover how ridiculous they thought such gestures were. But at the beginning he'd been innocent: not
know ing what to give o r how to give it. T hey be gan to make their req uirements clea r as the years went by, and he, in
time, learnt to practice the etiquette of selling his soul. His self mortifications were studiously planned and
immaculately staged, though they had left him without nipples or the hope of children. It was worth the pain, though:
the po wer ca me to him by degrees. A triple first at O xford , a wife end owed beyond the dre ams o f priapism, a sea t in
Parliament, and so on, soon enough, the country itself.
The cauterized stumps of his thumbs ached, as they often did when he was nervous. Idly, he sucked on one.
"- Well we're now in the closing stages of what really has been one hell of a race, eh, Jim?"
"Oh yes, it's really been a revelation, hasn't it? Voight is really the outsider of the field; and here he is streaking away
from the competition without much effort. Of course, Jones made the unselfish gesture of checking with Frank
McClo ud that he was indeed all right after that bad fall of his, and that put him behind."
"It's lost the race for Jones really, hasn't it?"
"I think that's right. I think it lost the race fo r him."
"T his is a charity race, o f course."
"Absolutely. And in a situation like this it's not whether yo u win or lose -"
"It's how you play the game."
"Right."
"Right."
"W ell they're both in sight of the Houses of Parliament now as they come round the bend of W hitehall. And the
crow ds are cheering their b oy on, but I really think it's a lost cause -"
"M ind you, he brought something sp ecial out of the b ag in Sw eden."
"H e did. He d id."
"M aybe he'll do it aga in."
Joel ran, and the gap betwe en himself and Vo ight was b eginning to close. He con centrated on the man's back, his
eyes boring into his shirt, learning his rhythm, looking for w eaknesses.
There was a slowing there. The man was not as fast as he had been. An unevenness had crept into his stride, a sure
sign of fatigue.
He could take him. With courage, he could take him.
And Kinderman. He'd forgotten about Kinderman. Without thinking, Joel glanced over his shoulder and looked
behind him.
Kinde rman was way back, still keeping his steady marathon runner's pace unchan ged. B ut there was something else
behind Jo el: another runner, alm ost on his heels; ghostly, vast.
He averted his eyes and stared ahead, cursing his stup idity.
He was gaining on Voight with every pace. The man was really running out of steam, quite clearly. Joel knew he
could take him for certain, if he worked at it. Forget his pursuer, whatever it was, forget everything except
overtaking V oight.
But the sight at his back wouldn't leave his head.
"Don't look back": M cCloud 's words. Too late, he'd done it. Be tter to know then who this phantom was.
He looked aga in.
At first he saw nothing, just Kinderman jogging along. And then the ghost runner appeared once more and he knew
what had brought McC loud and Loyer down.
It was no runner, living or dead. It wasn't even human. A smoky body, and yawning darkness for its head, it was
Hell itself that was pressing on him.
"D on't look back ."
Its mouth, if mouth it was, was open. Breath so cold it made Joel gasp swirled around him. That was why Loyer had
muttered prayers as he ran. Much go od it had do ne him; death had come anyway.
Joel look ed away, not caring to see H ell so close, trying to ignore the sudd en weakness in his knees.
Now Vo ight, too, was glancing behind him. The look on his face was dark and uneasy: and Joel knew somehow that
he belonged to Hell, that the shadow behind him was Vo ight's master.
"Voight. Voight. Voight. Voight-" Joel expelled the word with every stride.
Voight heard his name being spoken.
"Black bastard," he said aloud.
Joel's stride lengthened a little. He was within two metres of Hell's runner.

"Lo ok.. . B ehind. . . You," said Vo ight.
"I see it."
"It's. . . come. . . for. . . you."
The words were mere melodrama: two-dimensional. He was master of his body wasn't he? And he was not afraid of
darkness, he was painted in it. W asn't that what made him less than human as far as so many people were
concerned? O r more, more than human; bloodier, sweatier, fleshier. More arm, more leg, more head. M ore strength,
more appetite. What could Hell do? Eat him? He'd taste foul on the palate. Freeze him? He was too hot-blooded, too
fast, too living.
Nothing would take him, he was a barbarian with the manners of a gentleman.
Neither night nor day entirely.
Voight was suffering: his pain was in his torn breath, in the gangling rags of his stride. They were just fifty metres
from the steps and the finishing line, but Voight's lead was being steadily eroded; each step brought the runners
closer.
Then the bargains began.
"Listen. -. to. . . me."
"What are you?"
"Power. . . I'll get you power. . . just. . . let. . . us win."
Joel was almost at his side now.
"T oo late."
His legs elated: his mind spun with pleasure. Hell behind him: Hell beside him, what did he care? He could run.
He passed Voight, joints fluent: an easy machine.
"Bastard. Bastard. Bastard -" the familiar was saying, his face contorted with the agonies of stress. And didn't that
face flicker as Joel passed it by? Didn't its features seem to lose, momentarily, the illusion of being human?
Then V oight was falling behind him, and the crowds were cheering, and the colours were flooding back into the
world. It was victory ahead. He didn't know for what cause, but victory nevertheless.
There wa s Cam eron, he saw him no w, stand ing on the steps besid e a ma n Joe l didn't kno w, a ma n in a pinstripe suit.
Cameron was sm iling and shouting with uncharacteristic enthusiasm, becko ning to Joel from the steps.
He ran, if anything, a little faster towards the finishing line, his strength coaxed by Cameron's face.
Then the face seemed to change. Was it the heat haze that made his hair shimmer? No, the flesh of his cheeks was
bubbling now, and there were dark patches growing darker still on his neck, at his forehead. Now his hair was rising
from his head and cremating light was flickering up from his scalp. Cameron was burning. Cameron was burning,
and still the smile, and still the beckoning hand.
Joel felt sudden despair.
Hell behind . Hell in fro nt.
This wasn't Cameron. Cam eron was nowhere to be seen:
so Cameron was gone.
He knew it in his gut. Cameron was gone: and this black paro dy that smiled at him and welcomed him wa s his last
mom ents, replayed for the d elight of his admirers.
Joel's step faltered, the rhythm of his stride lost. At his back he heard Voight's breath, horridly thick, close, closer.
His whole b ody su dde nly revo lted. H is stoma ch de manded to throw up its contents, his legs cried out to collapse, his
head refused to think, only to fear.
"Run," he said to himself. "Run. Run. R un."
But H ell was ahead. H ow could he run into the arm s of such foulness?
Voight had closed the gap between them, and was at his shoulder, jostling him as he passed. The victory was being
snatched from Joel easily: sweets from a babe.
The finishing line was a dozen strides away, and Voight had the lead again. Scarcely aware of what he was doing,
Joel reached out and snatched at Voight as he ran, grabbing his singlet. It was a cheat, clear to everybody in the
crow d. But what the Hell.
He pulled hard at Vo ight, and both men stumbled. T he cro wd p arted as they veered off the track and fell heavily,
Vo ight on to p of Joel.
Joel's arm, flung o ut to prevent him falling to o hea vily, was cru shed under the weight of both bodies. Caught badly,
the bone of his forearm cracked. Joel heard it snap a moment before he felt the spasm; then the pain threw a cry out
of his mouth.
On the steps, Burgess was screeching like a wild man. Quite a performance. Cameras were snapping, comm entators

commenting.
"Get up! Get up!" the man was yelling.
But Joel had snatched Voight with his one good arm, and nothing was going to make him let go.
The two rolled around in the gravel, every ro ll crushing Joel's arm and sending spurts of nausea thro ugh his gut.
The familiar playing Vo ight was exhausted. It had never been so tired: unprep ared for the stress of the race its
master had dem anded it run. Its temper was short, its co ntrol perilously close to snapping. Joel co uld smell its breath
on his face, and it was the sm ell of a go at.
"Show yourself," he said.
The thing's eyes had lost their pupils: they we re all white now. Joel hawked up a clot of phlegm from the bac k of his
thick-spittled mouth and spat it in the familiar's face.
Its temper broke.
The face dissolved. What had seemed to be flesh sprouted into a new resemblance, a devouring trap without eyes or
nose, or ears, or hair.
All around, the crowd shrank back. People shrieked:
peo ple fainted. Joel saw none of this: but heard the cries with satisfaction. T his transformatio n was not just for his
benefit: it was common knowledge. They were seeing it all, the truth, the filthy, gaping truth.
The mouth was huge, and lined with teeth like the maw of some deep-water fish, ridiculously large. Joel's one good
arm was under its lower jaw, just managing to keep it at bay, as he cried for help.
Nobody stepped forward.
The crowd stood at a polite distance, still screaming, still staring, unwilling to interfere. It was purely a spectator
sport, wrestling with the Devil. Nothing to do with them.
Joel felt the last of his strength falter: his arm could keep the mouth at bay no longer. Despairing, he felt the teeth at
his brow and at his chin, felt them pierce his flesh and his bone, felt, finally, the white night invade him, as the
mouth bit off his face.
The familiar rose up from the corpse w ith strands of Joel's head hanging out fro m be tween its teeth. It had taken o ff
the features like a mask, leaving a mess of blood and jerking m uscle. In the op en hole of Jo el's mouth the roo t of his
tongue flapped and spurted, past speaking sorrow.
Burgess didn't care how he appeared to the world. The race was everything: a victory was a victory however it was
won. And Jone s had cheated after all.
"H ere!" he yelled to the fam iliar. "H eel!"
It turned its blood-strung face to him.
"Come here," Burgess o rdered it.
They were only a few yards apart: a few strides to the line and the race was won.
"Run to m e!" B urgess screeched . "Run! Run! Run!"
The familiar was weary, but it knew its master's voice. It loped towards the line, blindly following B urgess" calls.
Four paces. Three - And Kinderman ran past it to the line. Short-sighted.
Kinderman, a pace ahead of Voight, took the race without knowing the victory he had won, without even seeing the
horro rs that were sprawled at his feet.
There were no cheers as he p assed the line. No congratulations.
The air around the steps seemed to darken, and an unseasonal frost appeared in the air.
Shaking his head apologetically, Burgess fell to his knees. "Our Father, who wert in Heaven, unhallowed be thy
name -"
Such an old trick. Such a nave response.
The crowd began to back away. Some peo ple were already running. Children, knowing the nature of the dark having
been so recently touched by it, were the least troubled. They took their parents" hands and led them away from the
spot like lamb s, telling them not to look behind them, and their parents half-rem emb ered the womb, the first tunnel,
the first aching exit from a hallowed place, the first terrible temptation to look behind and die. Remembering, they
went with their children.
Only Kind erma n seem ed untouched. H e sat on the steps and cleane d his glasses, smiling to have won, indifferent to
the chill.
Burgess, knowing his prayers were insufficient, turned tail and disappeared into the Palace of W estminster.
The familiar, deserted, relinquished all claim to human appe arance and became itself. Insolid, insipid, it spat out the
foul-tasting flesh of Joel Jones. Half chewed, the runner's face lay on the gravel beside his body. The familiar folded
itself into the air and went back to the Circle it called home.

It was stale in the corridors of power: no life, no help.
Burgess was out of condition, and his running soon became a walk. A steady step along the gloom-panelled
corridors, his feet almost silent on the well trodd en carpet.
He didn't quite know what to do. Clearly he would be blamed for his failure to plan against all eventualities, but he
was co nfident he could arg ue his wa y out of tha t. He would give them whatever they req uired as reco mpe nse for his
lack of foresight. An ear, a foot; he had nothing to lose but flesh and blood.
But he had to plan his defence carefully, because they hated bad logic. It was more than his life was worth to come
before them with half-formed excuse s.
There was a chill behind him; he knew what it was. Hell had followed him along these silent corridors, even into the
very womb of democracy. He would survive though, as long as he didn't turn round: as long as he kept his eyes on
the floor, or on his thum bless hands, no harm wo uld co me to him. T hat was one o f the first lessons one learnt,
dealing with the gulfs.
There was a frost in the air. Burgess" breath was visible in front of him, and his head was aching with cold.
"I'm sorry," he said sincerely to his pursuer.
The voice that came back to him was milder than he'd expected.
"It wasn't your fault."
"No," said Burgess, taking confidence from its conciliatory tone. "It was an error and I am contrite. I overlooked
Kind erma n."
"T hat was a mistake. W e all make them ," said Hell. "Still, in ano ther hun dred years, we 'll try again. De moc racy is
still a new cu lt: it's not lost its superficial glamour yet. We'll give it another century, and have the best of them then."
"Yes."
"B ut you -"
"I know."
"N o po wer for you, G regory."
"N o."
"It's not the end o f the world. Lo ok at m e."
"N ot at the m ome nt, if you do n't mind."
Burgess ke pt walking, stead y step up on stea dy step. Kee p it calm, keep it rational.
"Look at me, please," Hell cooed.
"Later, sir."
"I'm only asking you to lo ok at m e. A little resp ect wo uld be app reciated."
"I will. I will, really. Later."
The corridor divided here. Burgess took the left-hand fork. He thought the symbolism might flatter. It was a cul-desac.
Burgess stood still facing the wall. The cold air was in his marrow, and the stumps of his thumbs were really giving
him jip. He took off his gloves and sucked, hard.
"Look at me. Turn and look at me," said the courteous voice.
W hat was he to d o now? B ack o ut of the corridor and find another way wa s best, presum ably. H e'd just have to walk
around and around in circles until he'd argued his point sufficiently well for his pursuer to leave him be.
As he stood, juggling the alternatives available to him, he felt a slight ache in his neck.
"Look at me," the voice said again.
And his throat was co nstricted . There wa s, strangely, a grinding in his head, the sound of bo ne rasp ing bo ne. It felt
like a knife was lodged in the b ase of his skull.
"Look at me," Hell said one final time, and Burgess" head turned.
Not his body. That stayed standing facing the blank wall of the cul-de-sac.
But his head cranked around on its slender axis, disregarding reason and anatomy. Burgess choked as his gullet
twisted on itself like a flesh rope, his vertebrae screwed to powder, his cartilage to fibre mush. His eyes bled, his ears
popped, and he died, looking at that sunless, unbegotten face.
"I told you to look at me," said Hell, and went its bitter way, leaving him standing there, a fine paradox for the
democrats to find when they came, bustling with words, into the Palace of Westminster.

JACQUELINE E SS:
HER WILL AND TESTEMENT

MY GO D, SHE thought, this can't be living. Day in, day out: the boredom, the drudgery, the frustration.
My Christ, she prayed, let m e out, set me free, crucify me if you must, but put me o ut of my m isery
In lieu of his euthan asian b ened iction, she took a blad e from Ben's razor, one d ull day in late M arch, lo cked herself
in the bathroom, and slit her wrists.
Through the throbbing in her ears, she faintly heard Ben outside the bathroom do or.
"Are you in there, darling?"
"Go away," she thought she said.
"I'm back early, sweetheart. T he traffic was light."
"Please go away."
The effort of trying to speak slid her off the toilet seat and on to the white-tiled floor, where pools of her blood were
already cooling.
"Darling?"
"G o."
"D arling."
"Away."
"Are you all right?"
No w he was rattling at the door, the ra t. Didn 't he realize sh e cou ldn't ope n it, would n't open it?
"Answer me, Ja ckie."
She groaned. She couldn't stop herself. The pain wasn't as terrible as she'd expected, but there was an ugly feeling, as
though she'd been kicked in the head. Still, he couldn't catch her in time, not now. Not even if he broke the door
down.
He broke the do or down.
She lo oked up at him thro ugh an air grown so thick with d eath you could have sliced it.
"Too late," she thought she said.
But it wasn't.
My G od, she thought, this can't be suicide. I haven't died. The doctor B en had hired for her was too perfectly benign.
Only the best, he'd promised, only the very best for my Jackie.
"It's nothing," the doctor reassured her, 'that we can't put right with a little tinkering."
W hy doesn't he just come out with it? she thought. He doesn't give a damn. He doesn't know what it's like.
"I deal with a lot of these women's problems," he confided , fairly oozing a practiced compa ssion. "It's got to
epidemic proportions am ong a certain age-bracke t."
She w as barely thirty. W hat was he telling her? T hat she w as prematurely menopa usal?
"D epression, partial or to tal withdrawal, ne urose s of every shape and size. You're no t alone, believe me."
Oh yes I am, she thought. I'm here in my head, on my own, and you can't know what it's like.
"We'll have you right in two shakes of a lamb's tail." I'm a lamb, am I? Does he think I'm a lamb?
Musing, he glanced up at his framed qualifications, then at his manicured nails, then at the pens on his desk and
notepad. But he didn't look at Jacqueline. Anywhere but at Jacqueline.
"I know," he was saying now, "what you've been through, and it's been traumatic. Women have certain needs. If they
go unanswe red -"
W hat would he know ab out wom en's needs?
Yo u're not a w oma n, she tho ught.
"What?" he said.
Had she spok en? She shook her head: denying sp eech. He w ent on; finding his rhythm o nce m ore: " I'm not go ing to
put you through interminable therapy-sessions. You don't want that, do you? You want a little reassurance, and you
want so mething to help you sleep a t nights."
He was irritating her badly now. His condescension was so profound it had no bottom. All-knowing, all-seeing
Fa ther; that was his p erformance. As if he were blessed w ith some miraculous insight into the nature of a wo ma n's
soul.
"O f course, I've tried therap y courses with p atients in the past. B ut between yo u and me -"
He lightly patted her hand. Father's palm on the back of her hand. She was supposed to be flattered, reassured,
maybe even seduced.
"- between you and me it's so much talk. Endless talk. Frankly, what good does it do? We've all got problems. You
can't talk them away, can you?"
You're not a woman. You d on't look like a woman, you don't feel like a woman -"Did you say something?" She

shook her head.
"I thought you said so mething. Plea se feel free to be honest with me."
She didn't reply, and he seemed to tire of pretending intimacy. He stood up and went to the window.
"I think the best thing for yo u -"
He stood against the light: darkening the room, obscuring the view of the cherry trees on the lawn through the
window. She stared at his wide shoulders, at his narrow hips. A fine figure of a man, as Ben would have called him.
No child-bearer he. Made to remake the world, a body like that. If not the world, remaking minds would have to do.
"I think the best thing for yo u -"
W hat did he know, with his hips, with his shoulders? He was too muc h a man to understand anything of her.
"I think the best thing for yo u wou ld be a course of sedatives -"
No w her eyes were on his waist.
"- and a holiday."
Her mind had focused no w on the body beneath the veneer of his clothes. The muscle, bone and blood b eneath the
elastic skin. She pictured it from all sides, sizing it up, judging its powers of resistance, then closing on it. She
thought:
Be a wom an.
Simp ly, as she tho ught that prep ostero us idea , it began to take shape. No t a fairy-tale transformation, unfortunately,
his flesh resisted such magic. She willed his manly chest into making b reasts of itself and it began to swell most
fetchingly, until the skin b urst and his sternum flew apart.
His pelvis, teased to breaking point, fractured at its centre; unbalanced, he toppled over on to his desk and from there
stared up at he r, his face yellow with sh ock. He licked his lips, over and over again, to find som e wetne ss to talk
with. His mouth was dry: his words were still-born. It was from between his legs that all the noise was coming; the
splashing of his b lood ; the thud of his bo wel on the carpet.
She screamed at the absurd monstrosity she had made, and withdrew to the far corner of the room, where she was
sick in the pot o f the rubber p lant.
My God, she thought, this can't be murder. I didn't so much as touch him.
W hat Jacqueline had done that afternoon, she kept to herself. No sense in giving people sleepless nights, thinking
abo ut such p eculiar talent.
The po lice were very kind. They produced any number of explanations for the sudden departure of Dr Blandish,
though none quite described how his chest ha d erupted in that extraordinary fashion, making two handsome (if
hairy) domes of his pectorals.
It was assumed that some unknown psych otic, strong in his insanity, had broken in, do ne the deed with hands,
hammers and sa ws, and exited, locking the innocent Ja cqueline E ss in an ap palled silence no interrogation co uld
hope to penetrate.
Person or persons unknown had clearly dispatched the doctor to where neither sedatives nor therapy could help him.
She almost forgot for a while. But as the months passed it came back to her by degrees, like a memory of a secret
adultery. It teased her with its forbidden delights. She forgot the nausea, and remembered the power. She forgot
sordidity, and remembe red stre ngth. She forgo t the guilt that ha d seize d her afterwards and longed, longed to d o it
again.
Only better.
"Jacqueline."
Is this my husband, she thought, actually calling me b y my nam e? U sually it was Jackie, or Jack, or nothing at all.
"Jacqueline."
He was loo king at he r with those big b aby blues of his, like the co llege-boy she'd loved at first sight. But his mo uth
was harder now, and his kisses tasted like stale bread.
"Jacqueline."
"Y es."
"I've go t some thing I want to spe ak to yo u abo ut."
A co nversa tion? she thought, it must be a p ublic holiday.
"I don't know how to tell you this."
"Try me," she suggested.
She knew that she could think his tongue into speaking if it pleased her. Make him tell her what she wanted to hear.
W ords of love, maybe, if she could remember what they sounded like. But what was the use of that? Better the truth.
"D arling, I've go ne off the rails a bit."

"What do you mean?" she said.
Have you, you bastard, she thought.
"It was while you were n't quite yourself. Yo u know, when things ha d mo re or less stopped betwe en us. Separate
rooms. . . you wanted separate rooms. . . and I just went bananas with frustration. I didn't want to upset you, so I
didn't say anything. B ut it's no use me trying to live two live s."
"Y ou can have an affair if you want to, Ben."
"It's not an affair, Jackie. I love her -"
He was preparing one of his speeches, she could see it gathering momentum behind his teeth. The justifications that
became accusations, those excuses that always turned into assaults on her character. Once he got into full flow
there'd be no stopping him. She didn't want to hear.
"- she's not like you at all, Jackie. She's frivolous in he r way. I sup pose you'd call her sha llow."
It might be worth interrup ting here, she thought, before he ties himself in his usual knots.
"S he's not mo od y like you. You know , she's just a normal wo ma n. I don't mean to say you're not normal: yo u can't
help having d epressions. B ut she's not so sensitive."
"T here's no need , Ben -"
"N o, damn it, I want it all off my chest."
On to me, she thought.
"You've never let me explain," he was saying. "You've always given me one of those damn looks of yours, as if you
wished I'd -"
Die.
"- wished I'd shut up."
Shut up.
"Y ou don't care how I feel!" H e was shouting now. " Always in your o wn little world."
Shut up, she thought.
His mouth was open. She seemed to wish it closed, and with the thought his jaws snapped together, severing the
very tip o f his pink to ngue. It fell from b etween his lips an d lod ged in a fold of his shirt.
Shut up, she thought again.
The two p erfect regimen ts of his teeth ground down into each other, crac king and splitting, nerve, calcium and sp it
making a p inkish foam on his chin as his mouth collap sed inwards.
Shut up, she w as still thinking as his startled baby blues sa nk back into his skull and his nose worm ed its way into
his brain.
He was not Ben any longer, he was a man with a red lizard's head, flattening, battening down upon itself, and, thank
Go d, he was past speech-ma king once and for all.
Now she had the knack of it, she began to take pleasure in the changes she was willing upon him.
She flipped him head over heels on to the floor and began to com press his arms and legs, telescoping flesh and
resistant bone into a smaller and yet smaller space. His clothes were folded inwards, and the tissue of his stomach
was plucked from his neatly packaged entrails and stretched around his body to wrap him up. His fingers were
poking from his shoulder-blades now, and his feet, still thrashing with fury, were tripped up in his gut. She turned
him over one final time to pressure his spine into a foot-long colum n of muck, and that was about the end o f it.
As she came out of her ecstasy she saw Ben sitting on the floor, shut up into a space about the size of one of his fine
leather suitcases, while blood , bile and lymphatic fluid p ulsed weakly from his hushed bo dy.
My Go d, she thought, this can't be m y husba nd. H e's never been as tidy as tha t.
This time she didn't wait for help. This time she knew what she'd done (guessed, even, how she'd done it) and she
accepted her crime for the too-rough justice it was.
She packed her bags and left the home.
I'm alive, she thought. For the first time in my whole, wretched life, I'm alive.
Vassi's Testimony (part one)
"To you who dream of sweet, strong women I leave this story. It is a promise, as surely as it is a confession, as
surely as it's the last words of a lost man who wanted nothing but to love and be loved. I sit here trembling, waiting
for the night, waiting for that wh ining pim p K oos to come to my do or again, and take everything I own fro m me in
exchange for the key to her room.
I am not a courageous man, and I never have been:
so I'm afraid of what may happen to me tonight. But I cannot go through life dreaming all the time, existing through
the darkness on only a glimpse of heaven. Sooner or later, one has to gird one's loins (that's appropriate) and get up

and find it. Even if it means giving away the world in exchange.
I probab ly make no sen se. You're thinking, you w ho chanced on this testimony, you're thinking, who was he, this
imbecile?
My name was Oliver Vassi. I am now thirty-eight years old. I was a lawyer, until a year or more ago, when I began
the search that ends tonight with that pimp and that key and that holy of holies.
But the story begins more than a year ago. It is many years since Jacqueline Ess first came to me.
She arrived out of the blue at my offices, claiming to be the widow of a friend of mine from Law Scho ol, one
Benjamin Ess, and when I thought back, I remembered the face. A mutual friend who'd been at the wedding had
shown me a photograph of Ben and his blushing bride. And here she was, every bit as elusive a beauty as her
photograph "promised.
I remember being acutely embarrassed at that first interview. She'd arrived at a busy time, and I was up to my neck
in work. But I was so enthralled by her, I let all the day's interviews fall by the wayside, and when my secretary
came in she gave me one of her steely glances as if to throw a bucket of cold water over me. I suppose I was
enamoured from the start, and she sensed the electric atmosphere in my office. Me, I pretended I was merely being
polite to the widow o f an old friend. I d idn't like to think about passion: it wasn't a part of my nature, or so I thought.
How little we know - I mean really know -about our capab ilities.
Jacqueline told me lies at that first meeting. About how Ben had died of cancer, of how often he had spoken of me,
and how fondly. I suppose she could have told me the truth then and there, and I would have lapped it up - I believe I
was utterly devoted from the beginning.
But it's difficult to remembe r quite how and when interest in another human being flares into something more
committed, more passionate. It may be that I am inventing the impact she had on me at that first meeting, simply reinventing history to justify my later excesses. I'm not sure. Anyway, wherever and whenever it happened, however
quickly or slowly, I succumbed to her, and the affair began.
I'm not a particularly inquisitive man where my friends, or my bed-partners, are concerned. As a lawyer one spends
one's time going through the dirt of other people's lives, and frankly, eight hours a day of that is quite enough for me.
W hen I'm out of the office my pleasure is in letting people be. I don't pry, I don't dig, I just take them on face value.
Jacqueline was no exception to this rule. She was a woman I was glad to have in my life whatever the truth of her
past. She possessed a marvellous sang-froid, she was witty, bawdy, oblique. I had never met a more enchanting
woman. It was none of my business how she'd lived with Ben, what the marriage had been like etc., etc. That was
her history. I was happy to live in the present, and let the past die its own death. I think I even flattered myself that
whatever pain she had experienced , I could help her forget it.
Certainly her stories had holes in them. As a lawyer, I was trained to be eagle-eyed where fabrications were
concerne d, and howe ver much I tried to p ut my percep tions asid e I sense d that she wasn't quite com ing clean with
me. B ut everyone has secrets: I knew that. Let her hav e hers, I thought.
Only once did I challenge her on a detail of her pretended life-story. In talking about Ben's death, she let slip that he
had got what he deserved. I asked her what she meant. She smiled, that Gioconda sm ile of hers, and told me that she
felt there was a balance to be redressed between men and women. I let the observation pass. After all, I was obsessed
by that time, past all hope of salvation; whateve r argum ent she w as putting, I was happ y to conced e it.
She was so beautiful, yo u see. Not in any two d imensio nal sense: she wasn't young, she wasn't innocent, she didn't
have that pristine symmetry so favoured by ad-men and photographers. Her face was plainly that of a woman in her
early forties: it had b een used to laugh and cry, and usage leaves its marks. B ut she had a power to transform herself,
in the subtlest way, making that face as various as the sky. Early on, I thought it was a make-up trick. But as we
slept together more and more, and I watched he r in the mornings, sleep in her eye s, and in the evenings, heavy with
fatigue, I soon realized she wore nothing on her skull but flesh and blood. What transformed her was internal: it was
a trick of the will.
And, you know, that made me love her all the more.
Then one night I woke with her sleeping beside me. We slept often on the floor, which she preferred to the bed.
Beds, she said, reminded her of marriage. Anyway, that night she was lying under a quilt on the carpet of my room,
and I, simply out of adoration, was watching her face in sleep.
If one has given oneself utterly, watching the beloved sleep can be a vile experience. Perhaps some of you have
known that paralysis, staring down at features closed to your enquiry, locked away from you where you can never,
ever go, into the other's mind. As I say, for us who have given ourselves, that is a horro r. One kno ws, in those
moments, that one does not exist, except in relation to that face, that personality. Therefore, when that face is closed
dow n, that persona lity is lost in its own unknowable world, one feels completely without purpose. A planet without a
sun, revolving in darkness.

That's how I felt that night, looking down at her extraordinary features, and as I chewed on my soullessness, her face
began to alter. She was clearly dreaming; but what dreams must she have been having. Her very fabric was on the
move, her muscle, her hair, the down on her cheek moving to the dictates of some internal tide. Her lips bloomed
from her bone, boiling up into a slavering tower of skin; her hair swirled around her head as though she were lying in
water; the substance of her cheeks formed furrows and ridges like the ritual scars on a warrior; inflamed and
throb bing p atterns o f tissue, swelling up and cha nging again even as a pattern forme d. T his fluxion was a terror to
me, and I must have made some noise. She didn't wake, but came a little closer to the surface of sleep, leaving the
deeper waters where these powers were sourced. The patterns sank away in an instant, and her face was again that of
a gently sleeping woman.
That was, you can understand, a pivo tal experience, even though I spent the next few days trying to convince myself
that I had n't seen it.
The effort was useless. I knew there was something wrong with her; and at that time I was certain she knew nothing
about it. I was convinced that something in her system was awry, and that I was best to investigate her history before
I told her what I had seen.
On reflection, of course, that seems laughably naive. To think she wouldn't have known that she contained such a
pow er. But it was easier for m e to picture he r as pre y to such skill, than mistress of it. T hat's a man speaking o f a
woman; not just me, Oliver Vassi, of her, Jacqueline Ess. We cannot believe, we men, that power will ever reside
happily in the b ody o f a wom an, unless that po wer is a m ale child . Not true po wer. T he po wer must be in male
hands, God-given. That's what our fathers tell us, idiots that they are.
Anyway, I investigated Jacqueline, as surreptitiously as I could. I had a contact in York where the couple had lived,
and it wasn't difficult to get some enqu iries moving. It too k a week for my contact to get back to m e, because he'd
had to cut through a good deal of shit from the police to get a hint of the truth, but the news came, and it was bad.
Ben was dead , that much was true. B ut there was no wa y he had died of cancer. M y contact had o nly got the vaguest
clues as to the condition of B en's corp se, but he gathered it had been spectacularly mutilated. And the prime suspect?
My beloved Jacqueline Ess. The same innocent woman who was occup ying my flat, sleeping by my side every
night.
So, I put it to her that she was hiding something from me. I don't know what I was expecting in return. What I got
was a demonstration of her power. She gave it freely, without malice, but I would have been a fool not to have read a
warning into it. She told me first how she had discovered her unique control over the sum and substance of human
beings. In her despair, she said, when she was on the verge of killing herself, she had found, in the very deep-water
trenches of her nature, faculties she had never known existed. Powers which came up out of those regions as she
recovered , like fish to the light.
Then she showed m e the smallest measure of these powers, plucking hairs from my head, one by one. O nly a dozen;
just to demonstrate her formidable skills. I felt them going. She just said: one from behind your ear, and I'd feel my
skin creep and then jump as fingers of her volition snatched a hair out. Then another, and another. It was an
incred ible display; she had this pow er do wn to a fine art, locating and withd rawing single hairs from my scalp with
the precision of tweezers.
Frankly, I was sitting there rigid with fear, kn owing that she was just toying with me. Sooner or later, I was ce rtain
the time would be right for her to silence m e permanently.
But she had doubts about herself. She told me how the skill, though she had honed it, scared her. She needed, she
said, someone to teach her how to use it best. And I was not that somebod y. I was just a man who loved her, who
had loved her before this revelation, and would love her still, in spite of it.
In fact, after that display I quickly came to accom mod ate a new vision of Jacqueline. Instead of fearing her, I
became more dev oted to this woman who to lerated my po ssession of her b ody.
My work b ecame an irritation, a distraction that came between me and thinking of my beloved. What reputation I
had bega n to de teriorate; I lost briefs, I lost credibility. In the space of two or three mo nths my p rofessio nal life
dwindled away to almost nothing. Friends despaired of me, colleagues avoided me.
It wasn't that she was feeding o n me. I w ant to be clear abo ut that. She was no lamia, no succub us. W hat hap pened to
me, my fall from grace with ordinary life if you like, was of my own making. She didn 't bewitch me; that's a
romantic lie to excuse rape. She was a sea: and I had to swim in her. Does that make any sense? I'd lived my life on
the shore, in the solid world of law, and I was tired of it. She was liquid; a boundless sea in a single body, a deluge
in a small room, and I will gladly drown in her, if she grants me the chance. But that was my decision. Understand
that. This has always been my decision. I have decided to go to the room tonight, and be with her one final time.
That is of my o wn free will.
And what man would not? She was (is) sublime.
For a month after that demonstration of power I lived in a permanent ecstasy of her. W hen I was with her she

showed me ways to love beyond the limits of any other creature on God's earth. I say beyond the limits: with her
there were no limits. And when I was away from her the reverie continued: because she seemed to have changed my
world.
Then she left me.
I knew why: she'd gone to find someone to teach her how to use strength. But understanding her reasons made it no
easier.
I broke down: lost my job, lost my identity, lost the few friends I had left in the world. I scarcely noticed. They were
minor losses, b eside the loss o f Jacq ueline. . ."
"Jacqueline."
My God , she thought, can this really be the mo st influential man in the country? He looked so unprep ossessing, so
very unspectacular. His chin wasn't even strong.
But Titus Penifer was power.
He ran more m onop olies than he could count; his word in the financial world could break co mpanies like sticks,
destroying the ambitions of hundreds, the careers of thousands. Fortunes were made overnight in his shadow, entire
corp oratio ns fell when he blew on them, casualties of his whim . This man knew p ower if any man knew it. He ha d to
be learned from.
"You wouldn't mind if I called you J., would you?"
"N o."
"Have you been waiting long?"
"Lo ng eno ugh."
"I don't norm ally leave beau tiful women waiting."
"Y es you do."
She knew him already: two minutes in his presence was enough to find his measure. He would come quickest to her
if she was q uietly insolent.
"Do you always call women you've never met before by their initials?"
"It's convenient for filing; do you mind?"
"It de pends."
"On what?"
"W hat I get in return for giving yo u the privilege."
"It's a privilege, is it, to know your name?"
"Y es."
"Well. . . I'm flattered. Unless of course you grant that privilege widely?"
She shoo k her head . No, he co uld see she wasn't profligate with her affections.
"W hy have you waited so long to see me?" he said. "Why have I had reports of your wearing my secretaries down
with your constant demands to m eet with m e? D o you want money? B ecause if you do you'll go away emptyhand ed. I becam e rich b y being mean, and the richer I get, the m eaner I become ."
The remark wa s truth; he sp oke it plainly.
"I don't want m oney," she sa id, equally plainly.
"T hat's refreshing."
"T here's richer than you."
He raised his eyebrows in surprise. She could bite, this be auty.
"True," he said. There were at least half a dozen richer men in the hemisphere.
"I'm not an adoring little nobody. I haven't come here to screw a name. I've come here because we can b e together.
W e have a great deal to offer each other."
"Such as?" he said.
"I have my b ody."
He sm iled. It was the straightest offer he'd heard in years.
"And what do I offer you in return for such largesse?"
"I want to learn -"
"Learn?"
"- how to use pow er."
She was stranger and stranger, this one.
"W hat do you mean?" he replied, playing for time. He hadn't got the measure of her; she vexed him, confounded
him.

"Shall I recite it for you again, in bourgeois?" she said, playing insolence with such a smile he almost felt attractive
again.
"N o need. You wa nt to learn to use pow er. I suppose I could teach you -"
"I know yo u can."
"Y ou realize I'm a marrie d ma n. Virg inia and I have been together eighteen yea rs."
"Yo u have three sons, four houses, a maid-servant called Mirabelle. You loathe New Y ork, and you love Bangkok;
your shirt collar is 161/2 , your favourite colour green."
"T urquoise."
"Y ou're getting subtler in your old age."
"I'm no t old."
"Eighteen years a m arried man. It ages you prematurely."
"N ot me."
"Prove it."
"How?"
"T ake m e."
"What?"
"T ake m e."
"Here?"
"D raw the blinds, lock the doo r, turn off the com puter termina l, and take me. I dare you."
"Dare?"
How long was it since anyone had dared him to do anything?
"Dare?"
He was excited. He hadn't been so excited in a dozen years. He drew the blinds, locked the door, turned off the video
display of his fortunes.
My God, she thought, I've got him.
It wasn't an easy passion, not like that with Vassi. For one thing, Pettifer was a clumsy, uncultured lover. For
another, he was too nervous of his wife to be a wholly successful adulterer. He thought he saw Virginia everywhere:
in the lobbies of the ho tels they took a room in for the afternoon, in cabs cruising the street outside their rendez vous,
once even (he swore the likeness w as exact) dressed as a waitress, and swabbing d own a table in a restaurant. All
fictional fea rs, but they dam pened the spon taneity of the romance somewhat.
Still, she was learning from him. He was as brilliant a potentate as he was inept a lover. She learned how to be
pow erful witho ut exercising power, how to keep one's self uncontaminated b y the foulness all cha risma stirs up in
the uncharismatic; how to make the plain decisions plainly; how to be merciless. Not that she needed much
education in that particular quarter. Perhaps it was more truthful to say he taught her never to regret her absence of
instinctive compassion, but to judge with her intellect alone who deserved extinction and who might be numbered
amongst the righteous.
Not once did she show herself to him, though she used her skills in the most secret of ways to tease pleasure out of
his stale nerves.
In the fourth week of their affair they were lying side by side in a lilac room, while the mid-afternoon traffic growled
in the street below. It had been a bad bout of sex; he was nervous, and no tricks would coax him out of himself. It
was over quickly, almost witho ut heat.
He was go ing to tell her something. She kne w it: it was waiting, this revelation, som ewhere at the b ack o f his throat.
Turning to him she massaged his temples with her mind, and soothed him into speech.
He was ab out to sp oil the day.
He was about to spoil his career.
He was about, God help him, to spoil his life.
"I have to stop seeing you," he said.
He would n't dare, she thought.
"I'm not sure what I know about you, or rather, what I think I know about you, but it makes me. . . cautious of you, J.
Do you understand?"
"N o."
"I'm afraid I susp ect you of. . . crimes."
"Crimes?"
"Y ou have a histo ry."
"Who's been rooting?" she asked. "Surely not Virginia?"

"N o, not Virginia, she's beyo nd curiosity."
"Who then?"
"It's not your business."
"Who?"
She pressed lightly on his temples. It hurt him and he winced.
"What's wrong?" she asked.
"M y head 's aching."
"T ension, that's all, just tensio n. I can take it awa y, Titus." She to uched her fingers to his forehead, relaxing her ho ld
on him. He sighed as relief came.
"Is that better?"
"Y es."
"Who's been snooping, Titus?"
"I have a personal secretary. Lyndon. You've heard me speak of him. He knew abo ut our relationship from the
beginning. Indeed, he b ooks the hotels, arranges my cove r stories fo r Virginia."
There was a sort of boyishness in this speech, that was rather touching. As though he was embarrassed to leave her,
rather than heartbroken. "Lyndon's quite a miracle-worker. He's maneuvered a lot of things to make it easier between
us. So he's got nothing against you. It's just that he happened to see one of the photographs I took of you. I gave
them to him to sh red."
"Why?"
"I shouldn't have taken them; it was a mistake. Virginia might have.. ." He paused, began again. "Anyhow, he
recognized you, altho ugh he could n't remem ber where he'd seen you before."
"B ut he rem emb ered eventually."
"H e used to work for o ne of m y newsp apers, as a go ssip co lumnist. T hat's how he cam e to be my person al assistant.
He rem embe red you from your previous incarnation, as it were. Jacq ueline Ess, the wife of Be njamin E ss,
deceased ."
"D eceased."
"H e brought me som e other pho tographs, no t as pretty as the ones of you."
"Photographs of what?"
"Y our home . And the bo dy of yo ur husb and. They said it was a body, tho ugh in G od's name there was precious little
huma n being left in it."
"There was precious little to start with," she said simply, thinking of Ben's cold eyes, and colder hands. Fit only to be
shut up, and forgotten.
"What happened?"
"T o B en? He was killed ."
"How?" D id his voice waver a little?
"Very easily." She had risen from the bed, and was standing by the window. Strong summer light carved its way
through the slats of the blind, ridges of shadow and sunlight charting the contours of her face.
"Y ou did it."
"Y es." H e had taught he r to be plain. "Yes, I did it."
He had taught her an economy of threat too . "Leave m e, and I'll do the same again."
He shoo k his head. "N ever. Y ou wo uldn't dare."
He was standing in front of her now.
"We must understand each other, J. I am powerful and I am pure. Do you see? My public face isn't even touched by
a glimm er of scandal. I could afford a mistress, a dozen mistresses, to b e revealed. B ut a murderess? N o, that wo uld
spoil my life."
"Is he blackmailing you? This Lyndon?"
He stared at the da y through the blinds, with a cripp led look on his face. There wa s a twitch in the nerves of his
cheek, under his left eye.
"Y es, if you must know," he said in a dead voice. "T he ba stard has me for all I'm wo rth."
"I see."
"And if he can guess, so can others. You understand?"
"I'm strong: you're strong. W e can twist them a round our little fingers."
"N o."
"Y es! I have skills, Titus."
"I don't want to know ."
"You will know," she said.

She looked at him, taking hold of his hands without touching him. He watched, all astonished eyes, as his unwilling
hands were raised to touch her face, to stroke her hair with the fondest of gestures. She made him run his trembling
fingers across her breasts, taking them with more ardour than he could summon on his own initiative.
"You are always too tentative, Titus," she said, making him paw her almost to the point of bruising. "This is how I
like it." Now his hands were lower, fetching out a different look from her face. Tides were moving over it, she was
all alive -"D eeper -"
His finger intruded, his thumb stroked.
"I like that, Titus. Why can't you do that to me without me demanding?"
He blushed. He d idn't like to talk about what they did together. She coaxed him deeper, whispering.
"I won't break, you know. Virginia may be Dresden china, I'm not. I want feeling; I want something that I can
remember you by when I'm not with you. Nothing is everlasting, is it? But I want something to keep me warm
through the night."
He was sinking to his knees, his hands kept, by her d esign, on her and in he r, still roving like two lustful crabs. H is
bod y was awash with sw eat. It was, she thought, the first time she'd ever see n him sweat.
"Don't kill me," he whimpered.
"I could wipe you out." Wipe, she thought, then put the image out of her mind before she did him some harm.
"I know. I kn ow," he said. "You ca n kill me easily."
He was crying. My God, she thought, the great man is at my feet, sobbing like a baby. What can I learn of power
from this puerile perfo rmance? She p lucked the tears o ff his cheeks, using rather more strength than the task
required. His skin reddened under her gaze.
"Let me be, J. I can't help you. I'm useless to you."
It was true. He was absolutely useless. Contemptuou sly, she let his hands go. They fell limply by his sides.
"Do n't ever try and find me, Titus. You understand? Do n't ever send your minions after me to preserve your
reputation, because I will be more merciless than you've ever been."
He said nothing; just knelt there, facing the window, while she washed her face, drank the coffee they'd ordered, and
left.
Lyndon wa s surprised to find the d oor of his office ajar. It wa s only seven-thirty-six. N one of the sec retaries would
be in for another hour. Clearly one of the cleaners had been remiss, leaving the door unlocked. He'd find out who:
sack her.
He pushed the do or open.
Jacq ueline was sitting with her back to the doo r. He recognized the back of her head, that fall of auburn hair. A
sluttish display; too teased, too wild. His office, an annex to Mr. Pettifer's, was kept meticulously ordered. He
glanced over it: everything seemed to be in place.
"What are you doing here?"
She to ok a little breath, p reparing herself.
This was the first time she had planned to do it. Before it had been a spur-of-the-moment decision.
He wa s appro aching the desk, and putting do wn his briefcase and his neatly-folded cop y of the Financial Times.
"You have no right to come in here without my permission," he said.
She turned on the lazy swivel of his chair; the way he did when he had people in to discipline.
"Lyndon," she said.
"No thing you can say or do will change the facts, Mrs Ess," he said, saving her the trouble of introducing the
subje ct, "you are a cold-bloo ded killer. It was m y bounden duty to inform Mr. Pettifer of the situation."
"You did it for the good of Titus?"
"O f course."
"And the blackmail, that was also for the good of Titus, was it?"
"G et out of my office -"
"Was it, Lyndon?"
"Yo u're a whore! W hores know nothing: they are ignorant, diseased animals," he spat. "Oh, you're cunning, I grant
you that - but then so 's any slut with a living to make."
She stood up. He expected a riposte. He got none; at least not verbally. But he felt a tautness across his face: as
though som eone was p ressing o n it.
"What. . . are. . . you. . . doing?" he said.
"Doing?"
His eyes were being forced into slits like a child imitating a monstrous Oriental, his mouth was hauled wide and
tight, his smile b rilliant. Th e words we re difficult to say -"Stop.. .it. . ." Sh e shook her head . "W hore. . ." he said

again, still defying her. She just stared at him. His face was beginning to jerk and twitch under the pressure, the
muscles going into spasm.
"T he po lice. . ." he tried to say, "if you lay a finger on me..."
"I wo n't," she said , and p ressed home her advantage. B eneath his clothes he felt the same tension all over his body,
pulling his skin, drawing him tighter and tighter.
Som ething was going to give; he knew it. Some p art of him would be we ak, and tear und er this relentless assault.
And if he once beg an to b reak o pen, nothing would prevent her ripping him apart. H e worked all this out quite
coolly, while his body twitched and he swore at her through his enforced grin.
"Cunt," he said. "Syphilitic cunt."
He didn't seem to b e afraid , she thought.
In extremis he just unleashed so much hatred of her, the fear was entirely eclipsed. Now he was calling her a whore
again; though his face was distorted almost beyond recognition.
And then he bega n to split.
The tear began at the bridge of his nose and ran up, across his brow, and down, bisecting his lips and his chin, then
his neck and chest. In a matter of seconds his shirt was dyed red, his dark suit darkening further, his cuffs and
trouser-legs pouring blood. The skin flew off his hands like gloves off a surgeon, and two rings of scarlet tissue
lolled d own to either side of his flayed fac e like the ears of an elephant.
His name-calling had stopped.
He had b een d ead of shock now for ten seconds, tho ugh she was still working him over venge fully, tugging his skin
off his bo dy and flinging the sc raps around the ro om, until at last he stood, steaming, in his red suit, and his red shirt,
and his shiny red shoes, and looked, to her eyes, a little more like a sensitive man. Content with the effect, she
release d him. He lay dow n quietly in a bloo d puddle and slept.
My God , she thought, as she calmly took the stairs out the back way, that was murder in the first degree.
She saw no reports of the death in any of the papers, and nothing on the news bulletins. Lyndon had apparently died
as he had lived, hidden from public view.
But she knew wheels, so big their hubs could not be seen by insignificant individuals like herself, would be moving.
What they would do, how they would change her life, she could only guess at. But the murder of Lyndon had not
simply been spite, though that had been a part of it. No, she'd also wanted to stir them up, her enemies in the world,
and bring them after her. Let them show their hands: let them show their contempt, their terror. She'd gone through
her life, it seemed, looking for a sign of herself, only able to define her nature by the look in others" eyes. Now she
wanted an end to that. It was time to dea l with her pursuers.
Surely now everyone who had seen her, Pe ttifer first, then V assi, would co me after her, an d she would close their
eyes permanently: make them forgetful of her. Only then, the witnesses destroyed, would she be free.
Pettifer didn't come, of course, not in person. It was easy for him to find agents, men without scruple or compassion,
but with a nose for pursuit that would shame a bloodhound.
A trap was being laid for her, though she couldn't yet see its jaws. There were signs of it everywhere. An eruption of
birds from behind a wall, a peculiar light from a distant window, footsteps, whistles, dark-suited men reading the
news at the limit of her vision. As the weeks passed they didn't come any closer to her, but then neither did they go
away. T hey waited, like cats in a tree, their tails twitching, their eyes lazy.
But the pursuit had Pettifer's mark. She'd learned enough from him to recognize his circumspection and his guile.
They would com e for her eventually, not in her time, but in theirs. Perhaps not even in theirs: in his. And though she
never saw his face, it was as though Titus was o n her heels pe rsona lly.
My God , she thought, I'm in danger of my life and I don't care.
It was useless, this power over flesh, if it had no direction behind it. She had used it for her own petty reasons, for
the gratification of nervous pleasure and sheer anger. But these displays hadn't brought her any closer to other
peop le: they just made her a freak in their eyes.
Sometimes she thought of Vassi, and wondered where he was, what he was doing. He hadn't been a strong man, but
he'd had a little passion in his soul. Mo re than Ben, more than Pettifer, certainly more than Lyndon. And, she
remembered, fondly, he was the only man she'd ever known who had called her Jacqueline. All the rest had
manufactured unendearing corruptions of her name:
Jackie, or J., or, in Ben's more irritating moods, Ju-ju. Only Vassi had called her Jacqueline, plain and simple,
accepting, in his forma l way, the comp leteness of her, the totality of her. And whe n she tho ught of him, tried to
picture how he might return to her, she feared for him.
Vassi's Testimony (part two)

"Of course I searched for her. It's only when you've lost someo ne that you realize the nonsense of that phrase "it's a
small world". It isn't. It's a vast, devouring world, especially if you're alone.
W hen I was a lawyer, lo cked in that incestuou s coterie, I used to see the sam e faces day after day. Som e I'd
exchange words with, some smiles, some nods. We belonged, even if we were enemies at the Bar, to the same
co mp lacent circle. W e ate at the sam e tab les, w e drank elbo w to elbow . W e even shared m istresses, though we didn 't
always know it at the time. In such circumstances, it's easy to believe the world means you no harm. Certainly you
grow older, but then so does everyone else. You even b elieve, in your self-satisfied way, that the passage of years
makes you a little wiser. Life is bearable; even the 3 a.m. sweats come m ore infrequen tly as the bank-balance sw ells.
But to think that the world is harmless is to lie to yourself, to be lieve in so -called certainties that are, in fact, simp ly
shared d elusions.
W hen she left, all the delusions fell away, and all the lies I had assiduously lived by becam e strikingly appa rent.
It's not a small world, when there's only one face in it you can bear to look upon, and that face is lost somewhere in a
maelstrom. It's not a small world when the few, vital memories of your object of affection are in danger of being
trampled out by the thousands of moments that assail you every day, like children tugging at you, demanding your
sole attention.
I was a broken man.
I would find myself (there's an apt phrase) sleeping in tiny bedrooms in forlorn hotels, drinking more often than
eating, and writing her name, like a classic obsessive, o ver and over again. On the walls, o n the pillow, on the palm
of my hand. I broke the skin of my p alm with my pen, and the ink infec ted it. T he ma rk's still there, I'm loo king at it
now. Jacqueline it says. Jacqueline.
Then one day, entirely by chance, I saw her. It sounds melodramatic, but I thought I was going to die at that
moment. I'd imagined her for so long, keyed myself up for seeing her again, that when it happened I felt my limbs
weaken, and I was sick in the middle of the street. Not a classic reunion. The lover, on seeing his beloved, throws up
dow n his shirt. B ut then, no thing that happ ened betwe en Jacqueline and myself was ever quite norm al. Or natural.
I followed her, which was difficult. There were crowds, and she was walking fast. I didn't know whether to call out
her name or not. I decided not. What would she have done anyway, seeing this unshaven lunatic shambling towards
her, calling her name? She would have run probably. Or worse, she would have reached into my chest, seizing my
heart in her will, and put me out of my misery before I could reveal her to the world.
So I w as silent, and simp ly followed her, doggedly, to what I assume d was her ap artment. And I stayed there, or in
the vicinity, for the nex t two and a half days, not quite knowing what to do. It was a ridiculous dilemma. A fter all
this time of watching for her, now that she was within speaking distance, touching distance, I didn't dare approach.
Maybe I feared death. But then, here I am, in this stinking room in Amsterdam, setting my testimony down and
waiting for Koos to bring me her key, and I don't fear death now. Probably it was my vanity that prevented me from
approaching her. I didn't want her to see me cracked and desolate; I wanted to come to her clean, her dream-lover.
W hile I waited, they came for her.
I don't know who they were. Two m en, plainly dressed. I don't think policemen: too smoo th. Cultured even. And she
didn't resist. She went smilingly, as if to the opera.
At the first opportunity I returned to the building a little better dressed, located her apartment from the porter, and
broke in. She had been living plainly. In one corner of the room she had set up a table, and had been writing her
memo irs. I sat down and read, and eventually took the pages away with me. She had go t no further than the first
seven years of her life. I wondered, again in m y vanity, if I would have be en chronicled in the b ook. Probab ly not.
I took some of her clothes too; o nly items she had worn when I had know n her. A nd no thing intima te: I'm not a
fetishist. I wasn't going to go home and bury my fac e in the sm ell of her underwear. But I wanted something to
reme mbe r her by; to picture her in. Though on reflection I never m et a hum an be ing mo re fitted to dress p urely in
her skin.
So I lo st her a second time, more the fault of my own co ward ice than circum stance."
Pettifer didn't come ne ar the house they were keeping M rs Ess in for four weeks. She was given m ore or less
everything she asked for, excep t her fre ed om , and she only asked for that in the m ost abstracted fashion. She wasn't
interested in escape: though it would have been easy to achieve. Once or twice she wondered if Titus had told the
two men and the woman who were keeping her a prisoner in the house exactly what she was capable of: she guessed
not. They treated her as though she were simply a woman Titus had set eyes on and desired. They had procured her
for his bed, simple as that.
W ith a room to herself, and an endless supply of paper, she began to write her memoirs again, from the beginning.
It was late summ er, and the nights were getting chilly. Som etimes, to warm herself, she wo uld lie on the floor, (she'd
asked them to remove the bed) and will her body to ripple like the surface of a lake. Her body, without sex, became a

mystery to her again; and she realized for the first time that physical love had been an e xploration o f that most
intimate, and yet most unknown region of her being: her flesh. She had understood herself best embracing someone
else: seen her own substance clearly only when another's lips were laid on it, adoring and gentle. She thought of
Vassi again; and the lake, at the thought of him, was roused as if by a tempest. Her breasts shook into curling
mountains, her belly ran with extraordinary tides, currents crossed and recrossed her flickering face, lapping at her
mouth and leaving their mark like waves on sand. As she was fluid in his memory, so as she remembered him, she
liquefied.
She though t of the few times she had b een at peac e in her life; and physical love, discharging amb ition and vanity,
had always preceded those fragile moments. There were other ways presumably; but her experience had been
limited. Her mother had always said that women, being more at peace with themselves than men needed fewer
distractions from their hurts. But she'd no t found it like that at all. She'd found her life full of hurts, but almo st emp ty
of ways to salve them.
She left off writing her memoirs when she reached her ninth year. She despaired of telling her story from that point
on, with the first realization of on-coming puberty. She burnt the papers on a bonfire she lit in the middle of her
room the day that Pettifer arrived.
My G od, she thought, this can't be power.
Pettifer looked sick; as physically changed as a friend she'd lost to cancer. One month seemingly healthy, the next
sucked up from the inside, self-devoured. He looked like a husk of a man: his skin grey and mottled. Only his eyes
glittered, and those like the eyes of a mad dog.
He was dressed immaculately, as though for a wedding.
"J."
"T itus."
He looked her up and down.
"Are you well?"
"T hank you, yes."
"They give you everything you ask for?"
"Perfect ho sts."
"Y ou haven't resisted ."
"Resisted?"
"B eing here. Locked up. I wa s prep ared, after Lynd on, for another slaughter of the innocents."
"Lyndon was no t innocent, T itus. These peop le are. Y ou didn't tell them."
"I didn't deem it necessary. M ay I close the door?" H e was her cap tor: but he cam e like an emissary to the camp of a
greater power. She liked the way he was with her, co wed but elated. H e close d the d oor, and lo cked it.
"I love you, J. And I fear you. In fact, I think I love you because I fear you. Is that a sickness?"
"I wo uld have thought so."
"Y es, so would I."
"Why did you take such a time to come?"
"I had to p ut my affairs in order. Otherwise there would have b een chaos. W hen I was gone."
"You're leaving?"
He looked into her, the muscles of his face ruffled by anticipation.
"I ho pe so ."
"Where to?"
Still she didn't guess what had brought him to the house, his affairs neatened, his wife unknowingly asked
forgiveness of as she slep t, all channels of escape closed , all contra diction s laid to rest.
Still she didn't guess he'd come to die.
"I'm reduced by you, J. Reduced to nothing. And there is nowhere for me to go. Do you follow?"
"N o."
"I cannot live without you," he said. T he clich was unpardonable. Could he not have found a b etter way to say it?
She almost laughed, it was so trite.
But he hadn't finished.
"- and I certainly can't live with you." Abrup tly, the tone chang ed. "Because you revolt me, wom an, your whole
being disgusts m e."
"So ?" she asked, so ftly.
"So . . ." He was tender again and she bega n to und erstand .". . . kill me."
It was grotesque. The glittering eyes were steady on her.
"It's what I want," he said. "Believe me, it's all I want in the world. Kill me, however you please. I'll go without

resistanc e, without com plaint."
She remembered the old joke. Masochist to Sadist: Hurt me! For God's sake, hurt me! Sadist to Masochist: No.
"And if I refuse?" she said.
"Y ou can't refuse. I'm loathsom e."
"B ut I don't hate you, Titus."
"Y ou sho uld. I'm we ak. I'm useless to you. I taught you no thing."
"Y ou taught me a great deal. I can co ntrol myself now."
"Lyndon's death was controlled, was it?"
"Certainly."
"It loo ked a little excessive to m e."
"H e got everything he deserved."
"Give me what I deserve, then, in my turn. I've locked you up. I've rejected you when you needed me. Punish me for
it."
"I surv ived."
"J!"
Even in this extremity he couldn't call her by her full name.
"Please to God . Please to God. I need only this one thing from you. Do it out of whatever motive you have in you.
Compa ssion, or contemp t, or love . But d o it, please do it."
"No," she said.
He crossed the room suddenly, and slapped her, very hard.
"Lyndon said you were a who re. He was right; you are. Gu tter slut, nothing better."
He walked away, turned, walked back, hit her again, faster, harder, and again, six or seven times, backwards and
forwards.
Then he stopped , panting.
"You want money?" Bargains now. Blows, then bargains. She was seeing him twisted through tears of shock, which
she was unab le to prevent.
"Do you want money?" he said again.
"What do you think?"
He didn't hear her sarcasm, and began to scatter notes around her feet, dozens and dozens of them, like offerings
around the Statue of the Virgin.
"Anything yo u want," he said, "Jacqueline."
In her b elly she felt something close to pain as the urge to kill him found birth, but she resisted it. It was playing into
his hands, becoming the instrument of his will: powerless. Usage again; that's all she ever got. She had been bred
like a cow, to give a certain supply. Of care to husbands, of milk to babies, of death to old men. And, like a cow, she
was expected to be compliant with every demand made of her, when ever the call came. Well, not this time.
She went to the door.
"W here are you going?" S he reached for the ke y.
"Your death is your own business, not mine," she said.
He ran at her before she could unlock the door, and the blow - in its force, in its malice - was totally unexpected.
"B itch!" he shrieked, a hail of blow s com ing fast upon the first.
In her stomach, the thing that wanted to kill grew a little larger.
He ha d his fingers tangled in her hair, and pulled her back into the roo m, shouting ob scenities at her, an endless
stream of them, as though he'd opened a dam full of sewer-water on her. This was just another way for him to get
what he wanted she told herself, if you succumb to this you've lost: he's just manipulating you. Still the words came:
the same dirty words that had been thrown at generations of unsubmissive women. Whore; heretic; cunt; bitch;
monster.
Yes, she was that.
Yes, she thought: monster I am.
The thought made it easy. She turned. He knew what she intende d eve n befo re she lo oked at him . He d ropped his
hands from her head. Her anger was already in her throat coming out of her - crossing the air between them.
Monster he calls me: monster I am.
I do this for myself, not for him. N ever fo r him. For myself!
He gasped as her will touched him, and the glittering eyes stopped glittering for a moment, the will to die became
the will to survive, all too late of course, and he roared. She heard answering shouts, steps, threats on the stairs. They
would b e in the room in a matter of mom ents.
"You are an animal," she said.

"No," he said, certain even now that his place was in command.
"Y ou don't exist," she said, advancing o n him. "They'll never find the part that was T itus. Titus is gone. The rest is
just -"
The pain was terrible. It stop ped even a voice com ing out from him. Or was that her aga in, changing his throat, his
palate, his very head? She was unlocking the plates of his skull, and reorganizing him.
No , he wanted to say, this isn't the subtle ritual I had planned. I wanted to die fo lded into you, I wanted to go with
my mo uth clam ped to yours, coo ling in you as I died . This is not the way I want it.
No. No. No.
They were at the door, the men who'd kept her here, beating on it. She had no fear of them, of course, except that
they might spoil her handiwo rk before the final touches were added to it.
Someone was hurling themselves at the door now. Woo d splintered: the door was flung open. The two men were
both armed. They pointed their weapons at her, steady-handed.
"Mr. Pettifer?" said the younger man. In the corner of the room, under the table, Pettifer's eyes shone.
"Mr. Pettifer?" he said again, forgetting the woman. Pettifer shook his snouted head. Don't come any closer, please,
he thought.
The man crouched do wn and stared und er the tab le at the disgusting b east that was squatting there; bloody fro m its
transformation, but alive. She had killed his nerves: he felt no pajn. He just survived, his hands kno tted into paws,
his legs scoop ed up around his b ack, knees broken so he had the look of a four-legge d crab, his brain exposed, his
eyes lidless, lower jaw b roken and swept up ov er his top jaw like a bulldog, ears torn o ff, spine snappe d, hum anity
bewitched into another state.
"You are an animal," she'd said. It wasn't a bad facsimile of beast hood.
The man with the gun gagged as he recognized fragments of his master. He stood up, greasy-chinned, and glanced
around at the woman.
Jacqueline shrugged.
"Yo u did this?" Awe mingled with the revulsion.
She nodded.
"Co me T itus," she said, clicking her fingers.
The beast shook its head, sobbing.
"Come Titus," she said more forcefully, and Titus Pettifer waddled out of his hiding place, leaving a trail like a
punctured meat-sack.
The man fired at Pettifer's remains out of sheer instinct. Anything, anything at all to prevent this disgusting creature
from approaching him.
Titus stumbled two steps back on his bloody paws, shook himself as if to dislodge the death in him, and failing, died.
"Content?" she asked.
The gunm an look ed up fro m the execution. W as the pow er talking to him? No; Jacq ueline was staring at Pettifer's
corp se, asking the question of him. C ontent?
The gunman dropped his weapon. The other man did the same.
"Ho w did this happen?" asked the man at the door. A simple question: a child's question.
"H e asked," said Jac queline. "It was all I co uld give him."
The gunman nodded, and fell to his knees.
Vassi's Testim ony (final part)
"Chance has played a worryingly large part in my romance with Jacqueline Ess. Sometimes it's seemed I've been
subject to every tide that passes through the world, spun around by the merest flick of accident's wrist. Other times
I've had the suspicion that she was masterminding my life, as she was the lives of a hundred others, a thousand
others, arranging every fluke meeting, choreographing my victories and my defeats, escorting me, blindly, towards
this last encounter.
I found her without knowing I'd found her, that was the irony of it. I'd traced her first to a house in Surrey, a hou se
that had a year previous seen the murder of one Titus Pettifer, a billionaire shot by one of his own bodyguards. In the
upstairs room, where the murder had taken place, all was serenity. If she had been there, they had removed any sign.
But the house, now in virtual ruin, was prey to all manner of graffiti; and on the stained plaster wall of that room
someone had scrawled a wom an. She was obscenely over-endowed, her gaping sex blazing with what looked like
lightning. And at her feet there was a creature of indeterminate species. Perhaps a crab, perhaps a dog, perhaps even
a man. W hatever it was it had no power over itself. It sat in the light o f her ago nizing p resence and counted itself
amo ngst the fortunate. Loo king at that wizene d creature, with its eyes turne d up to gaze on the burning M ado nna, I

knew the picture was a portrait of Jacqueline.
I don't know ho w long I stood looking at the graffiti, but I was interrupted by a m an who looked to be in a worse
condition than me. A beard that had never been trimmed or washed, a frame so wasted I wondered how he managed
to stand upright, and a smell that would not have shamed a skunk.
I never knew his name: but he was, he told me, the maker o f the picture on the wall. It wa s easy to believe that. H is
desperation, his hunger, his confusion were all marks of a man who had seen Jacqueline.
If I was rough in my interrogation of him I'm sure he forgave me. It was an unburdening for him, to tell everything
he'd seen the day that Pettifer had been killed, and know that I believed it all. He told me his fellow bodyguard, the
man who had fifed the shots that had killed Pettifer, had comm itted suicide in prison.
His life, he said, was meaningless. She had destroyed it. I gave him what reassurances I could; that she meant no
harm, and that he needn't fear that she would come for him. W hen I told him that, he cried , more, I think, out of loss
than relief.
Finally I asked him if he knew where Jacqueline was now. I'd left that question to the end, though it had been the
most pressing enquiry, because I suppose I didn't dare hope he'd know. But my God, he did. She had not left the
house immediately after the shooting of Pettifer. She had sa t down with this man, and talked to him q uietly abo ut his
children, his tailor, his car. She'd asked him what his mother had been like, and he'd told her his mother had been a
prostitute. Had she been hap py? Jacq ueline had asked. He'd said he didn't know. Did she ever cry, she'd asked. He'd
said he never saw her laugh or cry in his life. And she'd nodded, and thanked him.
Later, before his suicide, the other gunma n had told him Jacq ueline had go ne to A msterd am. T his he knew for a fact,
from a ma n called K oos. And so the circle be gins to close, yes?
I was in Amsterdam seven weeks, without finding a single clue to her whereabouts, until yesterday evening. Seven
weeks of celibacy, which is unusual for me. Listless with frustration I went down to the red-light district, to find a
woman. They sit there you know, in the windows, like mannequins, beside pink-fringed lamps. Some have miniature
dogs on their laps; some read. Most just stare out at the street, as if mesmerized.
There were no faces there that intereste d m e. They all seeme d joyless, lightless, to o m uch unlike her. Yet I couldn't
leave. I was like a fat boy in a sweet shop, too nauseous to buy, too gluttonous to go.
Towards the middle of the night, I was spoken to out of the crowd by a young man who, on closer inspection, was
not young at all, but heavily made up. He had no eyebrows, just pencil marks drawn on to his shiny skin. A cluster
of gold earrings in his left ear, a half-eaten peach in his white-gloved hand, open sandals, lacquered toenails. He took
hold of my slee ve, proprietarily.
I must have sneered at his sickening appearance, but he didn't seem at all upset by my contempt. You look like a
man of discernment, he said. I looked nothing of the kind: you must be mistaken, I said. No, he replied, I am not
mistake n. Yo u are O liver V assi.
My first thought, absurdly, was that he intended to kill me. I tried to pull away; his grip on my cuff was relentless.
You want a woman, he said. Did I hesitate enough for him to know I meant yes, though I said no? I have a woman
like no other, he went on, she's a miracle. I know you'll want to meet her in the flesh.
W hat made me know it was Jacqueline he was talking about? Perhap s the fact that he had known me from out of the
crowd, as though she was up at a window somewhere, ordering her admirers to be brought to her like a diner
ordering lobster from a tank. Perhaps too the way his eyes shone at me, meeting mine without fear because fear, like
rapture, he felt only in the presence of o ne creature o n Go d's cruel earth. Could I not also see myself reflected in his
perilo us look? H e knew Jacq ueline, I had no doubt of it.
He knew I was ho oked, because once I hesitated he turne d away from me with a mincing shrug, as if to say:
you missed your chance. Where is she? I said, seizing his twig-thin arm. He cocked his head down the street and I
followed him, suddenly as witless as an idiot, out of the throng. The road em ptied as we walked; the red lights gave
way to gloom , and then to da rkness. If I asked him where we were going once I asked him a doze n times; he chose
not to answer, until we reached a narrow door in a narrow house down some razo r-thin street. W e're here, he
announced, as though the hovel were the Palace o f Versailles.
Up two flights in the otherwise empty house there was a room with a black door. He pressed me to it. It was locked.
"See," he invited, 'she's inside."
"It's locked," I replied. My heart was fit to burst: she was near, for certain, I knew she was near.
"See," he said again, and pointed to a tiny hole in the panel of the door. I devoured the light through it, pushing my
eye towards her through the tiny hole.
The squalid interior was empty, except for a mattress and Jacqueline. She lay spread-eagled, her wrists and ankles
bound to rough posts set in the bare floor at the four co rners of the mattress.
"W ho did this?" I deman ded, no t taking my eye from her na kedness.
"She asks," he replied. "It is her desire. She asks." She had heard my voice; she cranked up her head with some

difficulty and stared directly at the do or. W hen she looked at me all the hairs ro se on my hea d, I swear it, in
welcome, and swayed at her command.
"Oliver," she said.
"Jacq ueline." I pressed the word to the wood with a kiss.
Her body was seething, her shaved sex opening and closing like some exquisite plant, purple and lilac and rose.
"Let me in," I said to Ko os.
"Y ou will no t survive o ne night with her."
"Let me in."
"She is expensive," he warned.
"How much do you want?"
"Everything you have. T he shirt off your ba ck, your money, your jewellery; then she is yours."
I wanted to beat the door down, or break his nicotine stained fingers one by one until he gave me the key. He knew
what I was thinking.
"T he key is hidden," he said, "And the do or is strong. You must pay, M r. Vassi. Yo u want to pay."
It was true. I wanted to p ay.
"Y ou want to give me all yo u have ever o wned , all you have eve r been. Yo u want to go to her with nothing to claim
you back. I know this. It" s how they all go to her."
"All? Are there many?"
"She is insatiab le," he said, witho ut relish. It wasn't a pimp 's boast: it was his pain, I saw that clearly. "I am always
finding m ore fo r her, and burying them ."
Burying them.
That, I supp ose, is K oos' function; he dispo ses of the dead . And he will get his lacquered hands on me after tonight;
he will fetch me off her when I am dry and useless to her, and find some pit, some canal, some furnace to lose me in.
The thought isn't particularly attractive.
Yet here I am with all the money I could raise from selling my few remaining possessions on the table in front of
me, my dignity go ne, my life hanging on a thread, waiting for a pim p and a key.
It's well dark now, and he's late. But I think he is obliged to come. Not for the money, he probably has few
requirements beyond his heroin and his mascara. He will come to do business with me because she demands it and
he is in thrall to her, every bit as much as I am. Oh, he will come. Of course he will come.
W ell, I think that is sufficient.
This is my testimo ny. I have no time to re-rea d it now . His foo tsteps are on the stairs (he limps) and I m ust go with
him. T his I leave to who ever find s it, to use as they think fit. By morning I sha ll be de ad, and hap py. Believe it."
My God , she thought, Koos has cheated me.
Vassi had been outside the door, she'd felt his flesh with her mind and she'd embraced it. But Ko os hadn't let him in,
despite her explicit orders. Of all men, Vassi was to be allowed free access, Koos knew that. But he'd cheated her,
the way they'd all cheated her except Vassi. With him (perhaps) it had been love.
She lay on the bed through the night, never sleeping. She seldom slept no w for m ore tha n a few m inutes: and only
then with Koos watching her. She'd done herself harm in her sleep, mutilating herself without knowing it, waking up
bleeding an d scream ing with every limb spro uting needles she'd made out of her own skin and muscle, like a flesh
cactus.
It was dark again, she guessed, but it was difficult to be sure. In this heavily curtained, bare-bulb lit room, it was a
perpetual day to the senses, perp etual night to the soul. She wo uld lie, bed-sores o n her back , on her buttocks,
listening to the far sounds of the street, sometimes dozing for a while, sometimes eating from Koos" hand, being
washed, being toileted, being used.
A key turned in the lock. She strained from the mattress to see who it was. The do or was ope ning. . . op ening...
opened.
Vassi. Oh God , it was Vassi at last, she could see him crossing the room towards her.
Let this no t be another mem ory, she prayed, please let it be him this time : true and real.
"Jacqueline."
He said the name of her flesh, the whole name.
"Jacqueline." It was him.
Behind him, Koos stared between her legs, fascinated by the dance of her labia.
"Koo. . ." she said, trying to smile.
"I brought him," he grinned at her, not looking away from her sex.
"A day," she whispered. "I w aited a day, K oos. You mad e me wait -"

"W hat's a day to you?" he said, still grinning.
She didn't need the pimp any longer, not that he knew that. In his innocence he thought Vassi was just another man
she'd seduced along the way; to be drained and discarded like the others. Koos believed he would be needed
tomo rrow; that's why he p layed this fatal gam e so artlessly.
"Lo ck the d oor," she suggested to him . "Stay if you like."
"Stay?" he said, leering. "You mean, and watch?"
He watched anyway. She knew he watched through that hole he had bored in the door; she could hear him pant
sometimes. But this time, let him stay forever.
Carefully, he took the key from the outside of the door, closed it, slipped the key into the inside and locked it. Even
as the lock clicked she killed him, before he could even turn round and look at her again. Nothing spectacular in the
execution; she just reached into his pigeon chest and crushed his lungs. He slumped against the door and slid down,
smearing his face across the wood.
Vassi didn't even turn round to see him die; she was all he ever wanted to look at again.
He approached the mattress, crouched, and bega n to untie her ankles. T he skin w as chafed, the rope scabby with o ld
blood. He wo rked at the knots systematically, finding a calm he thought he'd lost, a simple contentment in being here
at the end, unable to go back, and knowing that the path ahead was deep in her.
W hen her ankles were free, he began on her wrists, interrupting her view of the ceiling as he bent over her. His voice
was soft.
"Why did you let him do this to you?"
"I was afraid."
"Of what?"
"To move; even to live. Every day, agony."
"Y es."
He understood so w ell that total inc apacity to exist.
She felt him at her side, undressing, then laying a kiss on the sallow skin of the stomach of the body she occupied. It
was marked with her workings; the skin had been stretched beyond its tolerance and was permanently criss-crossed.
He lay down be side he r, and the feel of his bod y against hers was not unpleasant.
She touched his head. Her joints were stiff, the movements painful, but she wanted to draw his face up to hers. He
came, smiling, into her sight, and they exchanged kisses.
My G od, she thought, we are together.
And thinking they were together, her will was made flesh. Under his lips her features dissolved, becoming the red
sea he'd dreamt of, and washing up over his face, that was itself dissolving; common waters made of thought and
bone.
Her keen breasts pricked him like arro ws; his erection, sharpened by her thought, killed he r in return with his only
thrust. Tangled in a wash of love they thought themselves extinguished, and were.
Outside, the hard world mourned on, the c hatter of buyers and se llers continuing through the night. Even tually
indifference and fatigue claimed ev en the eagere st merchant. Inside and out there wa s a healing silence : an end to
losses and to ga ins.

THE SKINS OF THE FATHERS
TH E CAR CO UG HE D, an d cho ked, and d ied. D avidson wa s sudd enly awa re of the wind o n the desert ro ad, as it
keened at the windows of his Mustang. He tried to revive the engine, but it refused life. Exasperated, Davidson let
his sweating hands drop o ff the whee l and surveyed the territory. In every direction, hot air, hot ro ck, hot sand. T his
was Arizona.
He opened the do or and stepped out on to the baking d ust highway. In fron t and b ehind it stretched unswervingly to
the pale horizon. If he narro wed his eyes he could just make out the mo untains, b ut as soo n as he attemp ted to fix his
focus they were eaten up by the heat-haze. Already the sun was corrod ing the top of his head, where his blon d hair
was thinning. He threw up the hood of the car and peered hopelessly into the engine, regretting his lack of
mechanical know-how. Jesus, he thought, why don't they make the damn things foolproof? Then he heard the music.
It was so far off it sounded like a whistling in his ears at first: but it became louder.
It was music, of a sort.
How did it sound? Like the wind through telephone lines, a sourceless, rhythmless, heartless air-wave plucking at
the hairs on the back of his nec k and telling them to stand . He tried to ignore it, but it would n't go away.
He looked up out of the shade of the bonnet to find the players, but the road was empty in both directions. Only as he

scanned the desert to the south-east did a line of tiny figures become visible to him, walking, or skipping, or dancing
at the furthest edge of his sight, liquid in the heat of the earth. The proce ssion, if that was its nature, was long, and
making its way across the desert parallel to the highwa y. Their paths wo uld not cross.
Davidson glanced down once more into the cooling entrails of his vehicle and then up again at the distant line of
dancers.
He need ed he lp: no d oubt of it.
He started off across the desert towards them.
Once off the highway the dust, not imp acted by the p assage of cars, was loo se: it flung itself up at his face with
every step. Progre ss was slo w: he broke into a trot:
but they were receding from him. He began to run.
Over the thunder of his blood , he could hear the m usic mo re loud ly now. T here w as no melody apparent, but a
constant rising and falling of many instruments; howls and hum mings, whistlings, drummings and roarings.
The head of the procession had now d isapp eared , received into distance, but the celebrants (if that they were) still
paraded past. He changed direction a little, to head them off, glancing over his shoulder briefly to check his way
back. With a stomach-churning sense of loneliness he saw his vehicle, as small as a beetle on the road behind him,
sitting weighed down by a boiling sky.
He ran on. A quarter of an hour, perhaps, and he began to see the procession more clearly, though its leaders were
well out of sight. It was, he began to believe, a carnival of some sort, extraordinary as that seemed out here in the
middle of God's nowhere. The last dancers in the parade were definitely costumed, however. They wore headdresses
and masks that tottered well above human height - there was the flutter of brightly-coloured feathers, and streamers
coiling in the air behind them. W hatever the reason for the celebration they reeled like drunkards, loping one
moment, leaping the next, squirming, some of them, on the ground, bellies to the hot sand.
Davidson's lungs were torn with exhaustion, and it was clear he was losing the pursuit. Having gained on the
procession, it was now moving off faster than he had strength or willpower to follow.
He stopped, bracing his arms on his knees to support his aching torso, and looked under his sweat-sodden brow at
his disappearing salvation. Then, summoning up all the energy he could muster, he yelled:
Stop!
At first there was no respo nse. T hen, thro ugh the slits of his eyes, he thought he saw one or two of the revelers halt.
He straightened up. Yes, one or two were looking at him. He felt, rather than saw, their eyes upon him.
He began to walk towards them.
So me of the instrum ents had died away, as though wo rd of his presence was spread ing amo ng them . T hey'd
definitely seen him, no doubt of that.
He walked on, faster now, and out of the haze, the details of the procession began to come clear.
His p ace slo wed a little. His heart, already po unding with exertion, thudded in his chest.
- My Jesus, he said, and for the first time in his thirty-six godless years the words were a true prayer.
He stood off half a mile from them, but there was no mistaking what he saw. His aching eyes knew papier-mch
from flesh, illusion fro m misshapen reality.
The creatures at the end of the procession, the least of the least, the hangers-on, were monsters whose appearance
beggared the nightm ares o f insanity.
One was p erhap s eighteen or twe nty feet tall. Its skin, that hung in fo lds on its muscle, was a sheath of spikes, its
head a cone of exp osed teeth, set in scarlet gums. A nother was three-winged, its triple ended tail thrashing the dust
with reptilian enthusiasm. A third and fourth were married together in a union of monstrosities the result of which
was more d isgusting tha n the sum of its parts. T hrough its length and b readth this symb iotic horror was lock ed in
seeping marriage, its limbs thrust in and through wounds in its partner's flesh. Though the tongues of its heads were
wound together it managed a cacophonous how l.
Davidson took a step back, and glanced round at the car and the highway. As he did so one of the things, black and
red, began to scream like a whistle. Even at a half mile's distance the noise cut into Davidson's head. He looked back
at the procession.
The whistling monster had left its place in the parade, and its clawed feet were pounding the desert as it began to
race towards him. Uncontrollable panic swept through Davidson, and he felt his trousers fill as his bowels failed
him.
The thing was rushing towards him with the speed of a cheetah, growing with every second, so he could see more
detail o f its alien anatomy with every step. T he thum bless hands with their toothed palms, the head that bore o nly a
tri-coloured eye, the sinew of its shoulder and chest, even its genitals, erect with anger, or (God help me) lust, two-

pronged and b eating against its abdomen.
Davidson shrieked a shriek that was almost the equal of the monster's noise, and fled back the way he had come.
The car was a mile, two miles away, and he knew it offered no protection were he to reach it before the monster
overcame him. In that moment he realized how close death was, how close it had always been, and he longed for a
moment's comprehension of this idiot honor.
It was alre ady clo se behind him as his shit-slimed legs buc kled, and he fell, and crawled , and d ragged himself
towards the car. As he heard the thud of its feet at his back he instinctively huddled into a ball of whimpering flesh,
and awaited the coup de grace.
He wa ited two heart-beats.
Three. Four. Still it didn't come.
The whistling voice had grown to an unbearable pitch, and was now fading a little. The gnashing palms did not
connect with his body. Cautiously, expecting his head to be snapped from his neck at any moment, he peered
through his fingers.
The creature had overtaken him.
Perhaps contemp tuous o f his frailty it had run on p ast him to ward s the highway.
Davidson smelt his excrement, and his fear. He felt curio usly ignored. B ehind him the p arade had moved on. Only
one or two inquisitive monsters still look ed over theft shoulders in his direction, as they rec eded into the dust.
The whistling now changed pitch. Davidson cautiously raised his head from ground level. The noise was all but
outside his hearing-range, just a shrill whine at the back of his aching head.
He stood up.
The creature had leapt on to the top of his car. Its head was thrown back in a kind of ecstasy, its erection plainer than
ever, the eye in its huge head glinting. W ith a final swoop to its voice, which took the whistle out of human hearing,
it bent upon the car, smashing the windshield and curling its mouthed hands upon the roof. It then proceeded to tear
the steel b ack like so much pa per, its body twitching with glee, its head jerking ab out. O nce the roof was torn up, it
leapt on to the highway and threw the metal into the air. It turned in the sky and smashed down on the desert floor.
Davidson briefly wondered what he could possibly put on the insurance form. Now the creature was tearing the
vehicle apart. T he doo rs were scattered. T he engine was ripped o ut. The whe els slashed and w renched off the axles.
To D avidson's nostrils there drifted the unmistakable stench of gasoline. No sooner had he registered the smell than
a shard of metal glanced against another and the creature and the car were sheathed in a billowing column of fire,
black ening into smo ke as it balled o ver the highway.
The thing did not call out: or if it did its agonies were beyond hearing. It staggered out of the inferno with its flesh on
fire, every inch of its body alight; its arms flailed wild ly in a vain attempt to douse the fire, and it began to run o ff
down the highway, fleeing from the source of its agony towards the mountains. Flames sprouted off its back and the
air was tinged with the smell of its cooking flesh.
It didn't fall, however, though the fire must have been devouring it. The run went on and on, until the heat dissolved
the highway into the blue distance, and it was gone.
Davidson sank down o n to his knees. The shit on his legs was already dry in the heat. The car continued to burn. The
music had gone entirely, as had the procession.
It was the sun that drove him from the sand back towards his gutted car.
He was blank-eyed when the next vehicle along the highway stopped to pick him up.
Sheriff Josh P ackard stare d in disb elief at the claw prints on the ground at his feet. They were etched in slo wly
solidifying fat, the liquid flesh of the monster that had run through the main street (the only street) of Welcome
minutes ago. It had then collapsed, breathing its last breath, and died in a writhing ball three trucks" length from the
bank. The normal business of Welcome, the trading, the debating, the how do you do's, had halted. One or two
nauseous individuals had been received into the lobby of the Hotel while the smell of fricasseed flesh thickened the
good desert air of the town.
The stench was so mething between o ver-co oked fish and an exhum ation, and it offended Packard. This was his
town, o verlooked by him, pro tected by him. The intrusion of this fireb all was no t looke d upon kindly.
Packard took out his gun and began to walk towards the corpse. The flames were all but out now, having eaten the
best of their meal. Even so destroyed by fire, it was a sizeable bulk. What might once have been its limbs were
gathered around what might have been its head. The rest was beyond recognition. All in all, Packard was glad of that
small mercy. But even in the charnel-house confusion of rendered flesh and blackened bone he could make out
enough inhuman forms to quicken his pulse.

This was a m onster: no doubt of it.
A creature from earth: out of earth, indeed. Up from the underworld and on its way to the great bowl for a night of
celebration. O nce every gen eration or so, his father had told him, the desert spat out its demons and let them loo se
awhile. Being a child who thought for himself Packard had never believed the shit his father talked but was this not
such a demon?
W hatever mischance had brought this burning monstrosity into his town to die, there was pleasure for Packard in the
proof of their vulnerability. His father had never mentioned that possibility.
Half-smiling at the thought of mastering such foulness, Packard stepped up to the smoking corpse and kicked it. The
crowd, still lingering in the safety of the doorways, cooed with admiration at his bravery. The half-smile spread
across his face. That kick alone would be worth a night of drinks, perhaps even a woman.
The thing was belly up. W ith the disp assionate gaz e of a p rofessio nal demon -kicker, P ackard scrutinized the tangle
of limbs across the head. It was quite dead, that was obvious. He sheathed his gun and bent towards the corpse.
"G et a cam era out here, Jebe diah," he said, impre ssing even himself.
His deputy ran off towards the office.
"W hat we need," he said, "is a p icture of this here b eauty."
Packard went down on his haunches and reached across to the blackened limbs of the thing. His gloves would be
ruined , but it was worth the inconvenien ce for the good this gesture would be doing for his pub lic image. He could
almost feel the admiring looks as he touched the flesh, and began to shake a limb loose from the head of the monster.
The fire had welded the parts together, and he had to wrench the limb free. But it came, with a jellied sound,
revealing the heat-withered eye on the face beneath.
He droppe d the limb back where it had com e with a look of disgust.
A be at.
Then the d emo n's arm wa s snaking up - sud denly - too sud denly for Pa ckard to mo ve, and in a mo ment sublime with
terror the Sheriff saw the mouth open in the palm of its forefoot and close again around his own hand.
W himpering he lost balance and sat in the fat, pulling away from the mouth, as his glove was chewed through, and
the teeth connected with his hand, clipping off his fingers as the rasping maw drew digits, blood and stumps further
into its gut.
Pac kard's bottom slid in the m ess und er him and he squirmed , howling now, to loose himself. It still had life in it,
this thing from the underworld. Packard bellowed for mercy as he staggered to his feet, dragging the sordid bulk of
the thing up off the ground as he did so.
A shot sounded, close to Packard's ear. Fluids, blood and pus spattered him as the limb was blown to smithereens at
the shoulder, and the mouth loosed its grip on Packard. The wasted mass of devouring muscle fell to the ground, and
Packard's hand, or what was left of it, was in the open air again. There were no fingers remaining on his right hand,
and barely half a thumb; the shattered bone of his digits jutted awkwardly from a partially chewed palm.
Eleanor Ko oker droppe d the barrel of the shotgun she had just fired, and grunted with satisfaction.
"Y our hand's gone," she said , with brutal simplicity.
Monsters, Packard remembered his father telling him, never die. He'd remembered too late, and now he'd sacrificed
his hand , his drinking, sexing hand . A wav e of no stalgia for lost years with those fingers wa shed over him, while
dots b urst into d arkness befo re his eyes. The last thing he saw as a dead faint carried him to the ground w as his
dutiful deputy raising a camera to record the whole scene.
The shack at the back of the house was Lucy's refuge and always had been. When Eugene came back drunk from
W elcom e, or a sudd en fury took him beca use the stew was cold, Lucy retired into the shac k where she could weep in
peace. T here w as no pity to be had in Lucy's life. None from E ugene certainly, and p recious little time to pity
herself.
Today, the old source of irritation had got Eugene into a rage:
The child.
The nurtured and carefully cultivated child of their love; named after the brother of Moses, Aaron, which meant
"exalted one". A sweet boy. The prettiest boy in the whole territory; five years old and already as charming and
polite as any East Coast Mom ma could wish to raise.
Aaron.
Lucy's pride and joy, a child fit to b low bubbles in a picture book, fit to dance, fit to charm the D evil himself.
That was Eugene's objection.
"That flicking child's no more a boy than you are," he said to Lucy. "He's not even a half-boy. He's only fit for
putting in fancy sho es and selling pe rfume. Or a preacher, he's fit for a preacher."

He pointed a nail-bitten, crook-thumb ed ha nd at the boy.
"Y ou're a shame to your father."
Aaron met his father's stare.
"You hear me, boy?"
Eugene looked awa y. The boy's big eyes made him sick to his stomach, more like a dog's eyes than anything human.
"I want him out of this ho use."
"What's he done?"
"He doesn't need to do a thing. It's sufficient he's the way he is. They laugh at me, you know that? They laugh at me
because o f him."
"N obo dy laughs at you, Eugene."
"O h yes -"
"N ot for the boy's sake."
"Huh?"
"If they lau gh, they d on't laugh at the bo y. They laugh at you."
"Shut your m outh."
"T hey kno w what you are , Eugene. T hey see you clear, clear as I see you."
"I tell you , wom an -"
"Sick as a dog in the street, talking about what yo u've seen and w hat you're scared of-"
He struck her as he had many times before. The blow drew blood, as similar blows had for five years, but though she
reeled , her first thou ghts were for the boy.
"Aaron," she sa id through the tears the pain had brought. "Come with me."
"Yo u let the bastard alone." Eugene was trembling.
"Aaron."
The child stood between father and mother, not knowing which to obey. The look o f confusion on his face brought
Lucy's tears more copiously.
"Mama," said the child, very quietly. There was a grave look in his eyes, that went beyond confusion. Before Lucy
could find a way to cool the situation, Eugene had hold of the boy by his hair and was dragging him closer.
"Y ou listen to your father, boy."
"Y es -"
"Y es, sir, we say to our father, don't we? W e say, yes, sir."
Aaron 's face was thrust into the stinking crotch of his father's jeans.
"Y es, sir."
"H e stays with m e, wom an. Y ou're no t taking him out into that fucking shack one more time. H e stays with his
father."
The skirmish was lost and Lucy knew it. If she pressed the point any further, she only put the child at further risk.
"If you harm him -"
"I'm his father, woman," Eugene grinned. "What, do you think I'd hurt my own flesh and blood?"
The boy was locked to his father's hips in a position that was scarcely short of obscene. But Lucy knew her husband:
and he was dose to an outburst that would be uncontrollable. She no longer cared for herself- she'd had her joys - but
the boy was so vulnerable.
"Get out of our sight, woman, why don't you? The boy and I want to be alone, don't we?"
Eugene dragged Aaron's face from his crotch and sneered down at his pale face.
"Don't we?"
"Y es, Papa."
"Y es, Papa. O h yes indeed, Pap a."
Lucy left the house and retired into the cool darkness of the shack, where she prayed for Aaron, named after the
brother of Moses. Aaron, whose name meant "exalted one"; she wondered how long he could survive the brutalities
the future would provide.
The boy was stripped now. He stood white in front of his father. He wasn't afraid. The whipping that would be meted
out to him would pain him, but this was not true fear.
"Yo u're sickly, lad," said Eugene, running a huge hand over his son's abdomen. "W eak and sickly like a runty hog. If
I was a farmer, and you were a hog, boy, you know what I'd do?"
Again, he too k the boy by the ha ir. The other hand, betwe en the legs.
"You know what I'd do, boy?"
"No, Papa. What would you do?"

The scored hand slid up over Aaron's body while his father made a slitting sound.
"W hy, I'd cut yo u up and feed you to the rest o f the litter. Nothing a hog likes better to eat, than hog-meat. H ow 'd
you like that?"
"N o, Papa."
"You wouldn't like that?"
"N o thank you, P apa."
Eugene's face hardened.
"W ell I'd like to see that, Aaron. I'd like to see what you'd do if I was to open you up and have a look inside yo u."
There wa s a new violence in his father's game s, which A aron could n't understand: new threats, new intimacy.
Uncom fortab le as he was the boy knew the real fear was felt not by him b ut by his father; fear was Eugene's
birthright, just as it was Aaron's to watch, and wait, and suffer, until the moment came. He knew (without
understanding how or why), that he would be an instrument in the destruction of his father. Maybe more than an
instrument.
Anger erupted in Eugene. He stared at the boy, his brown fists clenched so tight that the knuckles burned white. The
boy w as his ruin, some how; he'd killed the good life they'd lived before he was bo rn, as sure ly as if he'd shot his
parents dead. Scarcely thinking of what he was doing, Eugene's hands closed around the back of the boy's frail neck.
Aaron made no sound.
"I co uld kill you boy."
"Y es, sir."
"What do you say to that?"
"N othing, sir."
"Y ou sho uld say thank you, sir."
"Why?"
"W hy, boy? "C ause this life's not worth w hat a ho g can shit, and I'd be doing yo u a loving service, as a father sho uld
a son."
"Y es, sir."
In the shack behind the house Lucy had stopped crying. There was no purp ose in it; and besides, something in the
sky she could see thro ugh the holes in the roo f had b rought mem ories to her that wiped the tears away. A certain
sky:
pure blue, sheeny-clear. Eugene wouldn't harm the boy. He wouldn't dare, ever dare, harm that child. He knew what
the bo y was, though he'd never adm it to it.
She remembe red the day, six years ago now, when the sky had been sheened like today, and the air had been livid
with the he at. Eug ene and she had b een just about as hot as the air, they hadn't taken their eyes off each other all day.
He was stronger then: in his prime. A soaring, splendid man, his body made heavy with work, and his legs so hard
they felt like ro ck when she ran her hand s over them. She had been q uite a loo ker herself; the best dam n bac kside in
W elcome, firm and downy; a divide so softly haired Eugene couldn't keep from kissing her, even there, in the secret
place. He'd pleasure her all day and all night sometimes; in the house they were building, or out on the sand in the
late afternoon . The desert made a fine bed, and the y could lie uninterrupted bene ath the wide sky.
That day six years ago the sky had darkened too soon; long before night was due. It had seemed to blacken in a
moment, and the lovers were suddenly cold in their hurried nakedness. She had seen, over his shoulder, the shapes
the sky had taken: the vast and monumental creatures that were watching them. He, in his passion, still worked at
her, thrust to his root and out the length again as he knew she delighted in, 'til a hand the colour of beets and the size
of a man pinched his neck, and plucked him out of his wife's lap. She watched him lifted into the sky like a
squirming jack-rabbit, spitting from two mouths, North and South, as he finished his thrusts on the air. Then his eyes
ope ned for a mome nt, and he saw his wife twen ty feet belo w him, still ba re, still sprea d butterfly wide, with
monsters on every side. Casually, without malice, they threw him away, out of their ring of admiration, and out of
her sight.
She remembered so well the hour that followed, the embraces of the monsters. Not foul in any way, not gross or
harmful, never less than loving. Even the machineries of reproduction that they pierced her with, one after the other,
were not painful, though some were as large as Eugene's fisted arm, and hard as bone. Ho w many of those strangers
took her that afternoo n - three, four, five? Mingling their semen in her b ody, fo ndly teasing joy from her with their
patient thrusts. W hen they went aw ay, and her skin was tou ched with sunlight again, she felt, thoug h on re flection it
seemed shameful, a loss; as though the zenith of her life was passed, and the rest of her days would be a cold ride
down to death.
She had got up at last, and walked over to where Eugene was lying unconscious on the sand, one of his legs broken

by the fall. She had kissed him, and then squatted to pass water. She hoped, and hope it was, that there would be
fruit from the seed of that day's love, and it wou ld be a keep sake o f her joy.
In the house Eugene struck the boy. Aaron's nose bled, but he made no sound.
"Sp eak, boy."
"What shall I say?"
"Am I your father or not?"
"Y es, father."
"Liar!"
He struck again, without warning; this time the blow carried Aaron to the floor. As his small, uncalloused palms
flattened against the kitchen tiles to raise himself he felt something through the floor. There was a music in the
ground.
"Liar!" his father was saying still.
There wo uld be mo re blo ws to co me, the boy tho ught, more p ain, mo re blo od. B ut it was be arable; and the music
was a p romise, after a lo ng wait, of an end to b lows o nce and for all.
Davidson staggered into the main street of Welcome. It was the middle of the afternoon, he guessed (his watch had
stopped, perhaps out of sympathy), but the town appeared to be em pty, until his eye alighted on the dark, smoking
mound in the middle of the street, a hundred yards from where he stood.
If such a thing had been possible, his blood would have run cold at the sight.
He recognized what that bundle of burned flesh had been, despite the distance, and his head spun with horror. It had
all been real after all. He stumbled on a couple m ore steps, fighting the dizziness and losing, until he felt himself
supported by strong arms, and heard, through a fuzz of head-noises, reassuring words being spoken to him. They
made no sense, but at least they were soft and human: he could give up any pretence to consciousness. He fainted,
but it seemed there was only a moment of respite before the world came back into view again, as odious as ever.
He had b een carried inside and was lying on an uncomfortable sofa, a woman's face, that of Eleanor Kooker, staring
down at him. She beamed as he came round.
"The m an'll survive," she said, her voice like cabbage going through a grater.
She leaned further forward.
"You seen the thing, did you?"
Davidson nodded.
"B etter give us the low -down."
A glass was thrust into his hand and Eleano r filled it gene rously with whisky.
"D rink," she dem anded, 'then tell us what yo u got to tell -"
He do wned the whisky in two, and the glass was immediately refilled. He drank the second glass more slowly, and
began to feel better.
The roo m was filled with peop le: it was as tho ugh all of Welcom e was p ressing into the K ooker front parlour. Quite
an audience: but then it was quite a tale. Loosened by the whisky, he began to tell it as best he could, without
em be llishme nt, ju st letting the wo rds com e. In return Eleanor describe d the circum sta nces of Sheriff Packard's
"accident" with the body of the car-wrecker. Packard was in the room, looking the worse for consoling whiskies and
pain killers, his mutilated hand bound up so well it looked more like a club than a limb.
"It's not the only de vil out there," said Packard when the sto ries were out.
"So's you say," said Eleanor, her quick eyes less than convinced.
"M y Pap a said so," P ackard returned, staring down at his bandaged hand. "And I be lieve it, sure as Hell I believe it."
"T hen we'd best do so mething abo ut it."
"Like what?" posed a sour looking individual leaning against the mantelpiece. "What's to be done about the likes of
a thing that eats automobiles?"
Eleanor straightened up and delivered a well-aimed sneer at the questioner.
"Well let's have the benefit of your wisdom, Lou," she said. "What do you think we should do?"
"I think we sho uld lie low and let "em pass."
"I'm no ostrich," said Eleanor, "but if you want to go bury your head, I'll lend you a spade, Lou. I'll even dig you the
hole."
Gene ral laughter. The cynic, discomforted, fell silent and picked at his nails.
"W e can't sit here and let them come running through," said Packard's deputy, between blo wing bubbles with his

gum.
"T hey were going towards the mo untains," Davidson said. " Away from W elcom e."
"So what's to stop them changing their goddam minds?" Eleanor countered. "Well?"
No answer. A few nods, a few head shakings. "Jebediah," she said, "you're deputy - what do you think about this?"
The young man with the badge and the gum flushed a little, and p lucked at his thin moustache. H e obviously hadn't a
clue.
"I see the picture," the woman snapped back before he could answer. "Clear as a bell. You're all too shit scared to go
poking them divils out of their holes, that it?"
Murm urs of self-justification around the room, more head -shaking.
"Y ou're just planning to sit yourselves dow n and let the women folk be devo ured."
A good word: devoured. So much more emotive than eaten. Eleanor paused for effect. Then she said darkly: "Or
worse."
Worse than devoured? Pity sakes, what was worse than devoured?
"You're not going to be touched by no divils," said Packard, getting up from his seat with some difficulty. He
swayed on his feet as he addressed the room.
"We're going to have them shit-eaters and lynch "em." This rousing battle-cry left the males in the room unroused;
the sheriff was low o n cred ibility since his e ncounter in M ain Street.
"Discretion's the better part of valour," Davidson murmured under his breath.
"That's so much horse-shit," said Eleanor.
Davidson shrugged, and finished off the whisky in his glass. It was not re-filled. He reflected ruefully that he should
be thankful he w as still alive. B ut his work-schedule was in ruins. He had to get to a telepho ne and hire a ca r; if
necessary have someone drive out to pick him up. The 'divils", whatever they were, were not his problem. Perhaps
he'd be interested to read a few column-inches on the subject in Newsweek, when he was back East and relaxing
with Barbara; but now all he wanted to do was finish his business in Arizona and get home as soon as possible.
Packard, howe ver, had other ideas.
"You're a witness," he said, pointing at Davidson, "and as Sheriff of this community I order you to stay in Welcome
until you've answered to my satisfaction all inquiries I have to p ut to you."
The formal language sounded od d from his slobbish mouth.
"I've got business -" Davidson began.
"T hen you just send a ca ble and can cel that b usiness, M r. fancy-D avidson."
The man wa s scoring points off him, Davidson knew, bolstering his shattered reputation by taking pot-shots at the
Easterner. Still, Packard was the law: there was nothing to be done about it. He nodded his assent with as much good
grace as he could muster. There'd be time to lodge a formal complaint against this hick-town Mussolini when he was
home, safe and sound. For now, better to send a cable, and let business go hang.
"So what's the plan?" Eleanor demanded of Packard.
The Sheriff puffed out his booze-brightene d cheeks.
"We deal with the divils," he said.
"How?"
"G uns, woman."
"Y ou'll need more than guns, if they're as b ig as he sa ys they are -"
"T hey are -" said D avidson, "believe me, they are."
Packard sneered.
"W e'll take the whole fucking arsenal," he said jerking his remaining thumb a t Jebe diah. " Go break out the heavyduty weapo ns, boy. Anti-tank stuff. Baz ookas."
General amazement.
"You got bazookas?" said Lou, the mantelpiece cynic.
Packard managed a leering smile.
"M ilitary stuff," he said, "left over from the B ig One." D avidson sighed inwardly. T he ma n was a psychotic, with his
own little arsenal of out-of-date weapons, which were probably more lethal to the user than to the victim. They were
all going to die. God help him, they were all going to die.
"You may have lost your fingers," said Eleanor Kooker, delighted by this show of bravado, "but you're the only man
in this roo m, Josh Pa ckard ."
Packard beamed and rubbed his crotch absent mindedly. Davidson couldn't take the atmosphere of hand-me-down
machismo in the room any longer.

"Lo ok," he pip ed up , "I've told you all I kn ow. W hy don't I just let you folks get on with it."
"Y ou ain't leaving," sa id Packard, "if that's what you're ro oting after."
"I'm just saying -"
"W e know what you're saying son, and I ain't listening. If I see you hitch up your britches to leave I'll string you up
by your balls. If you've got any."
The bastard would try it too, thought Davidson, even if he only had one hand to do it with. Just go with the flow, he
told himself, trying to stop his lip curling. If Packard went out to find the monsters and his damn bazooka backfired,
that was his business. Let it be.
"T here's a whole tribe of them," Lou was quietly pointing out. "A ccording to this man. So ho w do we take out so
many of them?"
"Strategy," said Packard.
"W e don't know the ir positions."
"Surveillance," replied Packard.
"They could really fuck us up Sheriff," Jebediah observed, picking a collapsed gum-bubble from his moustache.
"T his is our territory," said E leano r. "W e got it: we keep it."
Jebediah nodded.
"Yes, ma," he said.
"Suppose they just disappeared? Suppose we can't find them no more?" Lou was arguing. "Couldn't we just let "em
go to ground?"
"Sure," said Packard. "A nd then we're left wa iting around fo r them to come o ut again and d evour the wome n folk."
"Maybe they mean no harm -" Lou replied.
Packard's reply was to raise his bandaged hand.
"T hey do ne me harm."
That was incontestable.
Packard continued, his voice hoarse with feeling.
"Shit, I want them come-bags so bad I'm going out there with or without help. But we've got to out-think them, out
manoeuvre them, so w e don't get anybody hurt."
The man talks some sense, thought D avidson. Ind eed, the who le roo m seemed impre ssed. M urmurs of ap proval all
round; even from the mantelpiece.
Packard round ed on the deputy again.
"Yo u get your ass moving, son. I want you to call up that bastard Crumb out of Caution and get his boys down here
with every goddam gun and grenade they've got. And if he asks what for you tell him Sheriff Packard's declaring a
State o f Eme rgency, and I'm requisitioning every asshole weapon in fifty miles, and the man o n the other end of it.
Move it, son."
No w the ro om w as po sitively glowing with ad miration, and Packard knew it.
"We'll blow the fuckers apart," he said.
For a mom ent the rhetoric seemed to work its magic on Davidson, and he half-believed it might be possible; then he
remembered the details of the procession, tails, teeth and all, and his bravado sank without trace.
They came up to the house so quietly, not intending to creep, just so gentle with their tread nobody heard them.
Inside, Eugene's anger had subsided. He was sitting with his legs up on the table, an empty bottle of whisky in front
of him. The silence in the room was so heavy it suffocated.
Aaron, his face puffed up with his father's blows, was sitting beside the window. He didn't need to look up to see
them coming acro ss the sand towards the house, their ap proach so unde d in his ve ins. His b ruised face wa nted to
light up with a smile of welcome, but he repressed the instinct and simply waited, slumped in beaten resignation,
until they were almost upon the house. Only when their massive bodies blocked out the sunlight through the window
did he stand up. The boy's movement woke Eugene from his trance.
"What is it, boy?"
The child had b acked off from the window, and was standing in the middle of the roo m, sob bing q uietly with
anticipation. H is tiny hands were spread like sun-rays, his finge rs jittering and twitching in his excitement.
"What's wrong with the window, boy?"
Aaron heard one o f his true father's voices eclipse Eugene's mumblings. Like a dog eager to greet his master after a
long separation, the boy ran to the door and tried to claw it open. It was locked and bolted.
"What's that noise, boy?"

Eugene pushed his son aside and fumbled with the key in the lock, while Aaron's father called to his child through
the do or. H is voice sound ed like a rush o f water, co unter p ointed by soft, piping sigh s. It was an eager voice , a
loving voice.
All at once, Eugene seemed to understand. He took hold of the boy's hair and hauled him away from the door.
Aaron squealed with pain.
"Papa!" he yelled.
Eugene took the cry as ad dressed to himself, but Aaron's true father also heard the bo y's voice. H is answering call
was threaded with piercing notes of concern.
Outside the house Lucy had heard the exchange of voices. She came out of the protection of her shack, knowing
what she'd see against that sheening sky, but no less dizzied by the monumental creatures that had gathered on every
side of the house. An anguish went through her, remembering the lost joys of that day six years previous. They were
all there, the unforgettable creatures, an inc redib le selection of forms -P yramid al head s on ro se coloured, classically
proportioned torsos, that umbrellaed into shifting skirts of lace flesh. A headless silver beauty whose six mother of
pearl arms sprouted in a circle from around its purring, pulsating mouth. A creature like a ripple on a fast-running
stream, constant but moving, giving out a sweet and even tone. Creatures too fantastic to be real, too real to be
disbelieved; angels of the hearth and threshold. One had a head, moving back and forth on a gossamer neck, like
some preposterous weather-vane, blue as the early night sky and shot with a dozen eyes like so many suns. Another
father, with a bod y like a fan, ope ning and closing in his exciteme nt, his o range flesh flushing deepe r as the boy's
voice was heard again.
"Papa!"
At the door of the house stood the creature Lucy remembered with greatest affection; the one who had first touched
her, first soo thed her fears, first entered her, infinitely gentle. It was p erhap s twenty feet tall when standing at its full
height. Now it was bowed towards the door, its mighty, hairless head, like that of a bird painted by a schizophrenic,
bent close to the house as it spoke to the child. It was naked, and its broad, dark back sweated as it crouched.
Inside the house, Eugene drew the boy close to him, as a shield.
"What do you know, boy?"
"Papa?"
"I said what do you know?"
"Papa!"
Jubilation was in Aaron's voice. The waiting was over.
The front of the house was smashed inwards. A limb like a flesh hook curled under the lintel and hauled the door
from its hinges. Bricks flew up and showered down again; wood-splinters and dust filled the air. Where there had
once b een safe darkness, cataracts of sunlight now p oured onto the dw arfed human figures in the ruins.
Eugene peered up through the veil of dust. The roof was being peeled back by giant hands, and there was sky where
there had been beams. To wering on every side he saw the limbs, bodies and faces of impossible beasts. They were
teasing the remaining walls down, de stroying his house as casually as he would break a bo ttle. He let the bo y slip
from his grasp without realizing what he'd done.
Aaron ran towards the creature on the threshold.
"Papa!"
It scoo ped him up like a father meeting a child out o f schoo l, and its head was thrown ba ck in a wave o f ecstasy. A
long, indescribable noise of joy was uttered out of its length and breadth. The hymn was taken up by the other
creatures, mounting in celebration. Eugene covered his ears and fell to his knees. His nose had begun to bleed at the
first notes of the monster's music, and his eyes were full of stinging tears. He wasn't frightened. He knew they were
not capab le of do ing him harm. He cried b ecause he had ignored this eventuality for six years, and now, with their
mystery and their glory in fro nt of him, he sob bed not to have ha d the courage to fac e them and know them. N ow it
was too late. T hey'd taken the boy b y force, and red uced his house, and his life, to ruins. Indifferent to his agonies,
they were leaving, singing their jubilation, his boy in their arms forever.
In the township of Welcome organization was the by-word of the day. Davidson could only watch with admiration
the way these foolish, hardy people were attempting to confront impossible odds. He was strangely enervated by the
spectacle; like watching settlers, in some movie, preparing to muster paltry weaponry and simple faith to meet the
pagan vio lence of the savage . But, unlike the mov ie, Davidso n knew de feat was pre-ord ained. He'd seen these
monsters: awe-inspiring. W hatever the rightness of the cause, the purity of the faith, the savages trampled the settlers
underfoo t fairly often. The defeats just make it into the movies.

Eugene's nose ceased to bleed after half an hour or so, but he didn't notice. He was dragging, pulling, cajoling Lucy
towards W elcom e. He wanted to hear no explanations fro m the slut, even tho ugh her voice was babb ling ceaselessly.
He could only hear the sound of the monsters" churning tones, and Aaron's repeated call of "Papa", that was
answered by a house-wrecking limb.
Eugene knew he had be en conspired against, though even in his most tortured imaginings he could not grasp the
whole truth.
Aaron was mad, he knew that much. And someho w his wife, his ripe-bodied Lucy, who had been such a be auty and
such a com fort, was instrumental in bo th the bo y's insanity and his own grief.
She'd sold the boy: that was his half-formed belief. In some unspeakable way she had bargained with these things
from the underworld, and had exchanged the life and sanity of his only son for some kind of gift. W hat had she
gained , for this payment? So me trinket or other that she kep t buried in her sha ck? My Go d, she w ould suffer for it.
But before he made her suffer, before he wrenched her hair from its holes, and tarred her flashing breasts with pitch,
she would confess. He'd make her confess; not to him but to the people of W elcome - the men and women who
scoffed at his drunken ramblings, laughed when he wept into his beer. They would hear, from Lucy's own lips, the
truth behind the nightmares he had endured, and learn, to their horror, that demons he talked about were real. Then
he wo uld be exo nerated, utterly, and the town wo uld take him b ack into its boso m asking for his forgiveness, while
the feathered body of his bitch-wife swung from a telephone pole outside the town's limits.
They were two miles outside Welcome when Eugene stopped.
"So mething's coming."
A cloud of dust, and at its swirling heart a multitude of burning eyes.
He feared the worst.
"M y Christ!"
He loo sed his w ife. W ere they com ing to fetch her to o? Yes, that was proba bly another part of the bargain she'd
made.
"They've taken the town," he said. The air was full of their voices; it was too much to bear.
They were coming at him down the road in a whining horde, driving straight at him - Eugene turned to run, letting
the slut go. They cou ld have her, as long as they left him alone; Lucy was smiling into the dust.
"It's Packard," she said.
Eugene glanced back along the roa d and narrowed his eyes. T he cloud of divils was resolving itself. The eyes at its
heart were headlights, the voices were sirens; there was an army of cars and motorcycles, led by Packard's howling
vehicle, careering down the road from Welcome.
Eugene was confounded. What was this, a mass exodus? Lucy, for the first time that glorious day, felt a twinge of
dou bt.
As it approached, the convoy slowed, and came to a halt; the dust settled, revealing the extent of Packard's kamikaze
squad. T here were about a dozen ca rs and half a do zen bikes, all of them loaded with police and weapons.
A smattering of Welcome citizens made up the army, among them Eleanor Koo ker. An impressive array of meanminded, well-armed people.
Packard leant out of his car, spat, and spoke.
"Got problems, Eugene?" he asked.
"I'm no fool, Packard," said Eugene.
"N ot saying you are."
"I seen these things. Luc y'll tell you."
"I know you have, Eugene; I kno w you have. T here's no d enying that there's divils in them hills, sure as shit. W hat'd
you think I've got this posse together for, if it ain't divils?"
Pac kard grinned across to Jebed iah at the w heel. "Sure as shit," he said again. "W e're going to blo w them all to
Kingdom Come."
From the back of the car, Miss Kooker leaned out the window; she was smoking a cigar.
"Seems we owe you an apo logy, G ene," she said , offering an apo logy for a smile. H e's still a sot, she tho ught;
marrying that fat-bottomed whore was the death of him. What a waste of a man.
Eugene's face tightened with satisfaction.
"Seems yo u do."
"Get in one of them cars behind," said Packard, "you and Lucy both; and we'll fetch them out of their holes like
snakes -"
"The've gone towards the hills," said Eugene.
"That so?"
"T ook my bo y. Threw my house dow n."

"Many of them?"
"D ozen or so ."
"OK E ugene, you'd best get in with us." Packard ordered a cop out of the back. "You're going to be hot for them
bastards, eh?"
Eugene turned to where Lucy had been standing.
"And I want her tried -" he said.
But Lucy was gone, running off across the desert: do ll-sized already.
"She's headed off the road ," said Eleanor. "She'll kill herself."
"K illing's too good fo r her," said E ugene, as he climbed into the car. "T hat woman's meaner than the Devil himself."
"How's that, Gene?"
"Sold my only son to Hell, that woman -"Lucy was erased by the heat-haze.
"- to H ell."
"T hen let her be," said Packard. "Hell'll take her back, so oner or later."
Lucy had known they wouldn't bother to follow her. From the moment she'd seen the car lights in the dust-cloud,
seen the guns, and the helmets, she knew she had little place in the events ahead. At best, she would be a spectator.
At worst, she'd die of heatstroke crossing the desert, and never know the upshot of the oncoming battle. She'd often
mu sed abo ut the existe nce of the creatures who w ere collectively Aaron's father. W here they lived , why they'd
chosen, in their wisdom, to make love to her. She'd wondered also whether anyone else in Welcome had knowledge
of them. How many human eyes, other than her own, had snatched glimpses of their secret anatomies, down the
passage of years? And of course she'd wondered if there would one day come a reckoning time, a confrontation
between one species and the other. Now it seemed to be here, without warning, and against the background of such a
reckoning her life was as nothing.
Once the cars and bikes had disappeared out of sight, she doubled back, tracing her footmarks in the sand, 'til she
met the road again. There was no way of regaining Aaron, she realized that. She had, in a sense, merely been a
guardian of the child, though she'd borne him. He belonged, in some strange way, to the creatures that had married
their seeds in her body to make him. Maybe she'd been a vessel for some experiment in fertility, and now the doctors
had returned to examine the resulting child. Maybe they had simply taken him out of love. W hatever the reasons she
only hoped she would see the outcome of the battle. Deep in her, in a place touched only by monsters, she hoped for
their victo ry, even though man y of the species she called her own wo uld perish as a result.
In the foothills there hung a great silence. Aaron had been set down amongst the rocks, and they gathered around
him eagerly to examine his clothes, his hair, his eyes, his smile.
It was towards evening, but Aaron didn't feel cold. The breaths of his fathers were warm, and smelt, he thought, like
the interior of the General Supplies Emporium in We lcome, a mingling of toffee and hemp, fresh cheese and iron.
His skin was tawny in the light of the diminishing sun, and at his zenith stars were appearing. He was not happier at
his mother's nipple than in that ring of dem ons.
At the toe of the foothills Packard brought the convoy to a halt. Had he known who N apoleon B onaparte was, no
doubt he would have felt like that conqueror. Had he known that conqueror's life-story, he might have sensed that
this was his Wa terloo: but Josh Packa rd lived and died be reft of heroes.
He summo ned his men from their cars and went amongst them, his mutilated hand tucked in his shirt for support. It
was not the most encouraging parade in military history. There were more than a few white and sickly-pale faces
amongst his soldiers, more than a few eyes that avoided his stare as he gave his ord ers.
"Men," he bawled.
(It occurred to bo th Ko oker and Davidson that as sneak-attacks went this wou ld not be am ongst the quietest.)
"M en - we've arrived, we're org anized, and we've go t God on our side. W e've got the best of the brutes alre ady,
understand?"
Silence; baleful looks; more swea t.
"I don't want to see one jack man of you turn your heel and run, "cause if you do and I set my eyes o n you, yo u'll
crawl home with your backside shot to He ll!"
Eleanor thought of applauding; but the speech wasn't over.
"And remember, men," here Packard's voice dropped to a conspiratorial whisper, 'these divils took Eugene's boy
Aaron not four hours past. T oo k him fairly o ff his m other's tit, while she was rocking him to sleep . T hey ain't
nothing but savages, whatever they may look like. They don't give a mind to a mother, or a child, or nothing. So

when you get up close to one you just think how yo u'd have felt if you'd been taken from your m other's tit-" -"
He liked the phrase 'mother's tit'. It said so much, so simply. Mo mma's tit had a goo d deal m ore po wer to mo ve these
men than her apple pie.
"Y ou've no thing to fear but seeming less than men , men."
Goo d line to finish on.
"G et on with it."
He got back into the car. Someone down the line began to applaud, and the clapping was taken up by the rest of
them. Packard's wide red face was cleft with a hard, yellow smile.
"W agons roll!" he grinned, and the c onvoy m oved off into the hills.
Aaron felt the air change. It wasn't that he was cold: the breaths that warmed him remained as embracing as ever.
But there was nevertheless an alteration in the atmosphere:
some kind of intrusion. Fascinated, he watched his fathers respond to the change: their substance glinting with new
colours, graver, warier colours. One or two even lifted their heads as if to sniff the air.
Something was wrong. Something, someone, was coming to interfere with this night of festival, unplanned and
uninvited. The demons knew the signs and they were not unprepared for the eventuality. Was it not inevitable that
the heroes of Welcome would come after the boy? Didn't the men believe, in their pitiable way, that their species
was born o ut of earth's necessity to know itself, nurtured from m amm al to ma mmal until it blossomed as huma nity?
Natural then to treat the fathers as the enemy, to root them out and try to destroy them. A tragedy really: when the
only thought the fathers had was of unity through marriage, that their children should blunder in and spoil the
celebration.
Still, men would be men. M aybe Aaron would be d ifferent, though perhaps he too would go b ack in time into the
human world and forget what he was learning here. The creatures who were his fathers were also men's fathers: and
the marriage of semen in Lucy's body was the same mix that made the first males. Wo men had always existed: they
had lived, a species to themselves, with the demons. But they had wanted playmates: and together they had made
men.
W hat an error, what a cataclysmic miscalculation. W ithin mere eons, the worst rooted out the best; the women were
made slaves, the demons killed or driven underground, leaving only a few pockets of survivors to attempt again that
first experiment, and m ake m en, like A aron, who would be wise r to their histories. O nly by infiltrating huma nity
with new male children could the master race be made milder. That chance was slim enough, without the
interference of mo re angry children, their fat white fists hot with guns.
Aaron scented Packard and his stepfather, and smelling them, knew them to be alien. After tonight they would be
know n dispassionately, like animals of a different species. It was the gorgeous array o f demons around him he felt
closest to, and he knew he would protect them, if necessary, with his life.
Pac kard's car led the attack. T he wave of vehicles appeared out of the darkness, their sirens blaring, their head lights
on, and drove straight towards the knot of celebrants. From one or two of the cars terrified cops let out spontaneous
howls of tenor when the full spectacle came into view, but by that time the attack force was committed. Shots were
fired. Aaron felt his fathers close around him protectively, their flesh now darkening with anger and fear.
Pac kard knew instinctively that these things were capa ble of fear, he could smell it off them. It was part of his job to
recognize fear, to play on it, to use it against the miscreant. He screeched his orders into his microphone and led the
cars into the circle of demons. In the back of one of the following cars Davidson closed his eyes and offered up a
prayer to Yahweh, Budd ha and Groucho Marx. Grant me p ower, grant me indifference, grant me a sense of humour.
But nothing came to assist him: his bladder still bubbled, and his throat still throbbed.
Ahead, the shriek of brakes. Davidson ope ned his eyes (just a slit) and caught sight of one of the creatures wrapping
its purple-black arm around Packa rd's car and lifting it into the air. One of the back doors flung open and a figure he
recognized as Eleanor Ko oker fell the few feet to the ground followed closely by Eugene. Leaderless, the cars were
in a frenzy of collisions - the whole scene partially eclipsed by smoke and dust. There was the sound of breaking
windscreens as cops took the quick way out of their cars; the shrieks of crumpling hoods and sheered off doors. The
dying howl of a crushed siren; the dying plea of a crushed cop.
Pac kard's voice was clear enough, ho wever, howling ord ers from his car even as it was lifted higher into the air, its
engine revving , its wheels sp inning foolishly in space. T he de mon was shaking the car as a child m ight a toy until
the driver's door opened and Jebediah fell to the ground at the creature's skirt of skin. Davidson saw the skirt envelop
the broken-backed deputy and appea r to suck him into its folds. He could see too how Eleanor was standing up to the
towering demon as it devoured her son.
"Jebediah, come out of there!" she shrieked, and fired shot after shot into his devourer's featureless, cylindrical head.
Davidson got o ut of the car to see better. Acro ss a clutter of crashed vehicles and bloo d-splattered hoods he could

make the whole scene out more plainly. The dem ons were sloping away from the battle, leaving this one
extrao rdinary monster to hold the bridgehead. Quietly Davidson offered up a prayer o f thanks to any passing de ity.
The divils were disappearing. There's be no pitched battle: no hand-to-tentacle fight. The boy would be simply eaten
alive, or whatever they planned for the poor little bastard. Indeed, couldn't he see Aaron from where he stood?
W asn't that his frail form the re treating d emo ns were holding so high, like a tro phy?
W ith Eleanor's curses and accusations in their ears the sheltering co ps be gan to emerge from their hiding-places to
surround the remaining demon. There was, after all, only one left to face, and it had their Napoleon in its slimy grip.
They let off vo lley upo n volley into its crea ses and tucks, and aga inst the imp artial geo metry o f its head, b ut the divil
seemed unconcerne d. Only when it had sha ken P ackard's car until the She riff rattled like a dead frog in a tin can did
it lose interest and drop the vehicle. A smell of gasoline filled the air, and turned Davidson's stomach.
Then a cry: "Heads dow n!"
A grenade? Surely not; not with so much gasoline on the -Davidson fell to the floor. A sudden silence, in which an
injured man could be heard whimpering somewhere in the chaos, then the dull, earth-rocking thud of the erupting
grenade.
Somebody said Jesus Christ - with a kind of victory in his voice.
Jesus Christ. In the nam e of. . . for the glory of. .
The dem on wa s ablaz e. The thin tissue of its gasoline soaked skirt was b urning; one o f its limbs had been blo wn off
by the blast, another partially destroyed; thick, colourless blood splashed from the wounds and the stump. There was
a smell in the air like burnt candy: the creature was clearly in an agony of cremation. Its body reeled and shuddered
as the flames licked up to ignite its empty face, and it stumbled away from its tormentors, not sounding its pain.
Davidson got a kick out of seeing it burn: like the simple pleasure he had from putting the heel of his boot in the
centre of a jelly-fish. Favourite summer-time occup ation of his childhoo d. In M aine: hot afternoons:
spiking men-o'-war.
Packard was being dragged o ut of the wreckage of his car. My God , that man was made of steel: he was standing
upright and calling his men to advance on the enemy. Even in his finest hour, a flake of fire dropped from the
flowering demon, and touched the lake of gasoline Packard was standing in. A moment later he, the car, and two of
his saviours were enveloped in a billowing cloud o f white fire. They stood no chance o f survival: the flames just
washed them away. Davidson could see their dark forms being wasted in the heart of the inferno, wrapped in folds of
fire, curling in on themselves as they perished.
Almost before Pa ckard's bod y had hit the ground Davidson could hear Eugene's voice over the flames.
"See what they've done? See what they've done?"
The accusation was gre eted b y feral howls from the cops. "W aste them !" Eugene was screaming. "W aste them !"
Lucy could hear the noise of the battle, but she made no attempt to go in the direction of the foothills. Something
about the way the moon was suspended in the sky, and the smell on the breeze, had taken all desire to move out of
her. Exhausted, and enc hanted , she stoo d in the o pen desert, and watched the sky.
W hen, after an age, she brought her ga ze ba ck do wn to fix o n the ho rizon, she saw two things that were of mild
interest. Out of the hills, a dirty smudge of smoke, and the edge of her vision in the gentle night light, a line of
creatures, hurrying away from the hills. She suddenly began to run.
It occurred to her, as she ran, that her gait was sprightly as a young girl's, and that she had a young girl's motive: that
is, she was in pursuit of her lover.
In an empty stretch of desert, the convocation of demons simply disappeared from sight. From where Lucy was
standing, panting in the middle of nowhere, they seemed to have been swallowed up by the earth. She broke into a
run again. Surely she could see her son and his fathers once more before they left forever? Or was she, after all her
years of anticipation, to b e den ied even that?
In the lead car Davidson was driving, commandeered to do so by Eugene, who was not at present a man to be argued
with. Something about the way he carried his rifle suggested he'd shoot first and ask questions later; his orders to the
straggling army tha t followed him were two parts incoh erent o bscenities to one pa rt sense. H is eyes glea med with
hysteria: his mouth dribbled a little. He was a wild man, and he terrified Davidson. B ut it was too late now to turn
back: he was in caho ots with the man fo r this last, apocalyptic pursuit.
"See, them black-eyed sons of bitches don't have no fucking heads," Eugene was screaming over the tortured roar of
the engine. "Why you taking this track so slow, boy?"
He jabbe d the rifle in Davidson's crotch.
"D rive, or I'll blow you r brains out."
"I don't know which way they've gone," Davidson yelled back at Eugene.

"W hat you mean? Show me!"
"I can't show you if they've disappe ared."
Eugene just about appreciated the sense of the response. "Slow down, boy." He waved out of the car window to slow
the rest o f the army.
"Sto p the car - stop the car!"
Pac kard brought the car to a halt.
"And put those fucking lights out. All of you!" The headlights were quenched. Behind, the rest of the entourage
followed suit.
A sudden dark. A sudde n silence. There was nothing to be seen or heard in any direction. They'd disappeared, the
whole cacoph onous tribe o f demons ha d simp ly vanished into the air, chim erical.
The desert vista brightened as their eyes became accustomed to the gleam of the moonlight. Eugene got out of the
car, rifle still at the ready, and stared at the sand, willing it to explain.
"Fuckers," he said, very so ftly.
Lucy had stopped running. Now she was walking towards the line of cars. It was all over by now. They had all been
tricked: the disappearing act was a trump card no-one could have anticipated.
Then, she heard Aaron.
She couldn't see him, b ut his voice was as clear as a bell; and like a bell, it summon ed. Like a bell, it rang out: this is
a time of festival: celebrate with us.
Eugene he ard it too; he sm iled. T hey were near after all.
"H ey!" the boy's voice said. "W here is he? Y ou see him, D avidson? " D avidson sho ok his head. Then -"W ait! W ait! I
see a light - look, straight ahead aw hile."
"I see it."
W ith exaggerated cau tion, Eugene mo tioned Davidson bac k into the driver's seat.
"D rive, bo y. But slo wly. And no lights."
Davidson nod de d. More jelly-fish for the spiking, he thought; they were going to get the bastards after all, and w asn't
that worth a little risk? The convoy started up again, creeping forward at a snail's pace.
Lucy began to run once more: she could see the tiny figure of Aaron now, standing on the lip of a slope that led
unde r the sand. T he cars were moving towards it.
Seeing them approaching, Aaron stopped his calls and began to walk away, back down the slope. There was no need
to wait any longer, they were following for certain. His naked feet made scarcely a mark in the soft-sanded incline
that led away from the idiocies of the world. In the shadows of the earth at the end of that slope, fluttering and
smiling at him, he could see his fam ily.
"He's going in," said Davidson.
"Then follow the little bastard," said Eugene. "Maybe the kid doesn't know what he's doing. And get some light on
him."
The headlights illuminated Aaron. His clothes were in tatters, and his body was slumped with exhaustion as he
walked.
A few yards off to the right of the slope Lucy watched as the lead car drove over the lip of the earth and followed the
boy d own, into -"N o," she said to herself, 'don't."
Davidson was suddenly scared. He began to slow the car.
"G et on with it, boy." Eugene ja bbe d the rifle into his cro tch again. "W e've got them cornered. W e've got a whole
nest of the m here. The bo y's leading us right to them."
The cars were all on the slope now, following the leader, their wheels slipping in the sand.
Aaron turned. Be hind him, illuminated only by the phosp horescence of their own m atter, the demons stood; a m ass
of impossible geometries. All the attributes of Lucifer were spread among the bodies of the fathers. The
extraordinary anatomies, the dreaming spires o f heads, the scales, the skirts, the claws, the clippers.
Eugene brought the convoy to a halt, got out of the car and began to walk towards Aaron.
"T hank you boy," he said. " Come he re - we'll look after you now. W e've got them. Y ou're safe."
Aaron stared at his father, uncomprehending.
The army was disgorging from the cars behind E ugene, read ying their weapons. A bazo oka was being hurriedly
assembled; a cocking of rifles, a weighing-up of grenades.
"Come to Papa, boy," Eugene coaxed.
Aaron didn't move, so Eugene followed him a few yards deeper into the ground. Davidson was out of the car now,
shaking from head to foot.
"Maybe you should put down the rifle. Maybe he's scared," he suggested.
Eugene grunted, and let the muzzle of the rifle drop a few inches.

"Y ou're safe," said Davidson. "It's all right."
"W alk towards us, boy. S lowly."
Aaron's face began to flush. Even in the deceptive light of the headlamps it was clearly changing colour. His cheeks
were blowing up like balloo ns, and the skin on his forehead was wriggling as though his flesh was full of maggots.
His head seemed to liquefy, to become a soup of shapes, shifting and blossoming like a cloud, the faade of boyhood
broken as the father inside the son showed its vast and unimaginable face.
Even as Aaron became his father's son, the slope began to soften. Davidson felt it first: a slight shift in the texture of
the sand, as though an order had passed through it, subtle but all-pervasive.
Eugene could only gape as Aaron's transformation continued, his entire body now overtaken by the tremors of
change. H is belly had becom e distended and a harvest of cones budded from it, which even now flowered into
dozens of coiled legs; the change was marvellous in its complexity, as out of the cradle of the boy's substance came
new glories.
W ithout warning Eugene raised his rifle and fired at his son.
The bullet struck the boy-dem on in the midd le of his face. Aaron fell back, his transformation still taking its course
even as his blood, a stream part scarlet, part silver, ran from his wound into the liquefying earth.
The geo metries in the da rkness moved out of hiding to help the child. T he intricacy of their forms was simplified in
the glare of the headlam ps bu t they seem ed, even as the y appeared , to be c hanging again: bod ies bec oming thin in
their grief, a whine of mourning like a solid wall of sound from their hearts.
Eugene raised his rifle a seco nd time, who oping at his victo ry. He had them. . . M y Go d, he had them. Dirty,
stinking, faceless flickers.
But the mud beneath his feet was like warm treacle as it rose around his shins, and when he fired he lost balance. He
yelled for assistanc e, but D avidson wa s alread y staggering back up the slop e out o f the gully fighting a losing battle
against the rising mire. The rest of the army were similarly trapped, as the desert liquefied beneath them, and
glutinous mud began to creep up the slope.
The dem ons ha d gone: retreated into the dark, their lament sunk aw ay.
Eugene, flat on his b ack in the sinking sand , fired o ff two useless, vehem ent shots into the darkness beyond A aron 's
corpse. He was kicking like a hog with its throat cut, and with every kick his body sunk deeper. As his face
disapp eared b eneath the m ud , he just glim psed Lucy, standing at the edge of the slope , staring dow n tow ards Aa ron's
bod y. Then the m ire covered his face, and blotted him out.
The desert was upon them with lightning speed.
One or two of the cars we re alrea dy entirely submerged , and the tide of sand clim bing the slope was relentlessly
catching up with the escapees. Fe eble cries for assistance ende d with choking silences as mo uths were filled with
desert; some bod y was sho oting at the ground in an hysterical attem pt to dam the flow, but it reached up swiftly to
snatch every last one of them. Even Eleanor Kooker wasn't to be let free: she struggled, cursing and pressing the
thrashing body of a cop deep er into the sand in her frantic attemp ts to step out of the gully.
There were universal howls now, as panicking men groped and grasped at each other for support, desperately trying
to keep their heads afloat in the sea of sand.
Davidson was buried up to his waist. The ground that eddied abo ut his lower half was hot and curiously inviting.
The intimacy of its pressure had given him an erection. A few yards behind him a cop was screaming blue murder as
the desert ate him up. Further still from him he could see a face peering out from the seething ground like a living
mask thrown on the earth. There was an arm close by, still waving, as it sank; a pair of fat buttocks was poking up
from the silt sea like two wa termelons, a p olicem an's farewe ll.
Lucy took one step backwards as the mud slightly overran the lip of the gully, but it didn't reach her feet. Nor,
curiously, did it dissipate itself, as a water-wave might have done.
Like concrete, it hard ened , fixing its living trophies like flies in amber. F rom the lips of every face that still took air
came a fresh cry of terror, as they felt the desert floor stiffen around their struggling limbs.
Davidson saw Eleanor Kooker, buried to breast-level. Tears were pouring down her cheeks; she was sobbing like a
little girl. He sc arcely thought of himself. Of the E ast, of B arbara, of the children, he tho ught no t at all.
The men whose faces were buried but whose limbs, or parts of bodies, still broke surface, were dead of asphyxiation
by now. Only Eleanor Koo ker, Davidson and two other men survived. One was locked in the earth up to his chin,
Eleanor was buried so that her b reasts sat on the ground, her arms w ere free to beat uselessly at the gro und that held
her fast. Davidson himself was held from his hips down. And most horribly, one pathetic victim was seen only by
his nose and mouth. His head was tipped back into the ground, blinded by rock. Still he breathed, still he screamed.
Eleanor Kooker was scrabbling at the ground with torn nails, but this was not loose sand. It was immovable.
"Get help," she demanded of Lucy, hands bleeding.
The two wom en stared at each other.

"Jesus God !" screamed the Mouth.
The Head was silent: by his glazed look it was apparent that he'd lost his mind.
"Please help us . . ." plead ed D avidson's Torso. "Fetch help ."
Lucy nodded.
"G o!" demanded Eleano r Ko oker. "G o!"
Numb ly, Lucy obeyed. Already there was a glimmer of dawn in the east. The air would soon be blistering. In
W elcom e, three hours walk away, she would find only old men, hysterical women and children . She would have to
summ on help fro m p erhaps fifty m iles distance. Even assum ing she found her way back. Even assum ing she didn 't
collapse exhausted to the sand and die.
It would be noon before she could fetch help to the woman, to the Torso, to the Head, to the Mo uth. By that time the
wilderness would have had the best of them. The sun would have boiled their brain-pans dry, snakes would have
nested in their hair, the buzzards would have hoo ked out their helpless eyes.
She glanced round once m ore at their trivial forms, dwarfed by the bloody sweep of the dawn sky. Little dots and
commas of human pain on a blank sheet of sand; she didn't care to think of the pen that wrote them there. That was
for tomorrow.
After a while, she began to run.

NEW MURDER IN THE RUE MORGUE
W INT ER , LEW IS D EC IDE D, was no season for old men. The sno w that lay five inches thick on the streets of Pa ris
froze him to the marrow. What had been a joy to him as a child was now a curse. He hated it with all his heart; hated
the snowballing children (squeals, howls, tears); hated, too, the young lovers, eager to be caught in a flurry together
(squeals, kisses, tears). It was uncomfortable and tiresome, and he wished he was in Fort Lauderdale, where the sun
would be shining.
But Catherine's telegram, though not explicit, had been urgent, and the ties of friendship between them had been
unbroken for the best part of fifty years. He was here for her, and for her brother Phillipe. However thin his blood
felt in this ice land, it was foolish to complain. He'd come at a summons from the past, and he would have come as
swiftly, and as willingly, if Paris had been burning.
Besides, it was his mother's city. She'd been born on the Boulevard Diderot, back in a time when the city was
untrammelled by free-thinking architects and social engineers. Now every time Lewis returned to Paris he steeled
himself for another desecration. It was happening less of late, he'd noticed. The recession in Europe made
governments less eager with their bulldozers. But still, year after year, more fine houses found themselves rubble.
Whole streets sometimes, gone to ground.
Even the Rue Morgue.
There wa s, of course, some d oubt as to whether tha t infamous street had ev er existed in the first p lace, but as his
years advanced Lewis had seen less and less purpose in distinguishing between fact and fiction. That great divide
was for young men, who still had to deal with life. For the old (Lewis was 73), the distinction was academic. What
did it matter what was true and what was false, what real and what invented? In his head all of it, the half-lies and
the truths, were one co ntinuum of persona l history.
Maybe the Rue Mo rgue had existed, as it had been described in Edgar Allan Poe's immortal story; maybe it was pure
invention. W hichever, the noto rious street was no long er to be found on a m ap of P aris.
Perhaps Lewis was a little disappointed not to have found the Rue Morgue. After all, it was part of his heritage. If
the stories he had been told as a young boy were correct, the events described in the Murders in the Rue Morgue had
been narra ted to Poe by Lewis's grandfather. It was his m other's pride tha t her father had met P oe, wh ile traveling in
America. Apparently his grandfather had been a globe-trotter, unhappy unless he visited a new town every week.
And in the winter of 1835 he had been in Richmond, Virginia. It was a bitter winter,
perhaps not unlike the one Lew is was presently suffering, and one night the grand father ha d taken refuge in a bar in
Richmond. There, with a blizzard raging outside, he had met a small, dark, melancholy young man called Eddie. He
was something of a local celebrity apparently, having written a tale that had won a competition in the Baltimore
Saturday Visitor. The tale was MS found in a bottle and the haunted young man was Edgar Allan Poe.
The two had spent the evening together, drinking, and (this is how the story went, anyway) Poe had gently pumped
Lewis's grandfather for stories o f the bizarre, of the occu lt and of the mo rbid. The worldly-wise traveler was glad to
oblige, pouring out believe-it-or-not fragments that the writer later turned into The M ystery of Marie Roget and T he
Murders in the Rue Morgue. In both those stories, peering out from between the atrocities, was the peculiar genius of

C. Auguste Dupin.
C. Auguste Dup in. Poe's vision of the perfect detective: ca lm, rational and brilliantly pe rceptive. The narratives in
which he appeared rapidly became well-known, and through them Dupin became a fictional celebrity, without
anyone in America knowing that Dupin was a real person.
He was the brother of Lewis's grandfather. Lewis's great uncle was C. Auguste Dupin.
And his greatest case - the M urders in the R ue M orgue -they too were b ased on fact. The slaughters that oc curred in
the story had actually taken place. Two women had indeed been brutally killed in the Rue Morgue. They were, as
Poe had written, Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter Mademoiselle Camille L'Espanaye. Both women of good
reputation, who lived quiet and unsensational lives. So much more horrible then to find those lives so brutally cut
short. The daughter's body had been thrust up the chimney; the body of the mother was discovered in the yard at the
back of the house, her throat cut with such savagery that her head was all but sawn off. No apparent motive could be
found for the murders, and the mystery further deepened when all the occupants of the house claimed to have heard
the voice of the murderer speaking in a different language. The Frenchman was certain the voice had spoken
Spanish, the Englishman had heard German, the Dutchman thought it was French. Dupin, in his investigations, noted
that none of the witnesses actually spoke the language they claimed to have heard from the lips of the unseen
murd erer. H e con clude d that the language was no language at all, but the wordless voice o f a wild beast.
An ape in fact, a monstrous orang-outang from the East Indian Islands. Its tawny hairs had been found in the grip of
the slain M adame L'Espanaye. O nly its strength a nd agility made the appalling fate of M ademoise lle L'Espanaye
plausible. The beast had belonged to a Maltese sailor, had escaped, and run riot in the bloody apartment on the Rue
Morgue.
That was the bones of the story.
W hether true or not the tale held a great roma ntic appeal for Lew is. He like d to think of his great uncle logica lly
pacing his way through the mystery, undistressed by the hysteria and horror around him. He thought of that calm as
essentially European; belonging to a lost age in which the light of reason was still valued, and the worst horror that
could be conceived of was a beast with a cut-throat razor.
No w, as the twentieth century ground through its last quarter, there were far greater atrocities to be accounted for, all
committed by human beings. The humble orang-outang had been investigated by anthropologists and found to be a
solitary herbivo re; quiet and p hilosophica l. The true mo nsters we re far less appa rent, and far more po werful. T heir
weap ons m ade razors look pitiful; their crimes were vast. In som e ways L ewis was almo st glad to be old and close to
leaving the century to its ow n devices. Y es, the sno w froze his ma rrow. Yes, to see a young girl with a face of a
goddess uselessly stirred his desires. Yes, he felt like an observer now instead of a participator.
But it had no t always been that way.
In 1937, in the very room at number eleven, Quai de Bourbo n, where he now sat, there had been experience enough.
Paris was still a pleasure-dome in those days, studiously ignoring rumours of war, and preserving, though at times
the strain told, an air of sweet navet. They had been careless then; in both senses of the word, living endless lives
of perfect leisure.
It wasn't so of course. The lives had not been perfect, or endless. But for a time - a summer, a month, a day - it had
seemed nothing in the world would change.
In half a d ecad e Paris would burn, and its playful guilt, which was true inno cence, wou ld be soiled perm anently.
They had spent many days (and nights) in the apartment Lewis now occupied, wonderful times; when he thought of
them his stomac h seemed to ache with the loss.
His thoughts turned to more recent events. To his New Yo rk exhibition, in which his series of paintings chronicling
the damnation of Europe had been a brilliant critical success. At the age of seventy-three Lewis Fox was a feted
man. Articles were being written in every art periodical. Admirers and buyers had sprung up like mushrooms
overnight, eager to purchase his work, to talk with him, to touch his hand. All too late, of course. The agonies of
creatio n were long o ver, and he'd p ut down his brushes for the last time five yea rs ago. Now, when he wa s mere ly a
spectator, his critical triumph seemed like a parody: he viewed the circus from a distance with something
approaching distaste.
W hen the telegram had come from Paris, begging for his assistance, he had been more than pleased to slip away
from the ring of imbeciles mouthing his praise.
Now he waited in the darkening apartment, watching the steady flow of cars across the Pont Louis-Phillipe, as tired
Parisians be gan the trek home through the snow. Their ho rns blared; their engines coughed and growled; their
yellow fog lamps made a ribbon of light across the bridge.
Still Catherine didn't come.
The snow, which had held off for most of the day, was beginning to fall again, whispering against the window. The
traffic flowed across the Seine, the Seine flowed und er the traffic. Night fell. At last, he he ard footsteps in the hail;

exchanged whispers with the housekeeper.
It was Catherine. At last, it was Catherine.
He stood up and stared at the doo r, imagining it opening b efore it opened, imagining her in the doo rway.
"Lewis, my darling -"
She smiled at him; a pale smile on a paler face. She looked older than he'd expected. How long was it since he'd seen
her? Four years o r five? H er fragrance was the same as she always wo re: and it reassure d Lewis with its
perm anence. H e kissed her co ld cheeks lightly.
"You look well," he lied.
"No I don't," she said. "If I look well it's an insult to Phillipe. How can I be well when he's in such trouble?"
Her m anner was b risk, and forbidd ing, as always.
She was three years his senior, but she treated him as a teacher would a recalcitrant child. She always had: it was her
way of being fond.
Greetings over, she sat down beside the window, staring out over the Seine. Small grey ice-floes floated under the
bridge, rocking and revolving in the current. T he water looked dead ly, as thoug h its bitterness could crush the breath
out of you.
"What trouble is Phillipe in?"
"H e's accused of-"
A tiny hesitation. A flicker of an eyelid.
"- murder."
Lewis wanted to laugh; the very thought was preposterous. Phillipe was sixty-nine years old, and as mild-mannered
as a lamb.
"It's true, Lewis. I couldn't tell you by telegram, you understand. I had to say it myself. Murder. He's accused of
murd er."
"Who?"
"A girl, of course. O ne of his fancy wo men."
"He still gets around, does he?"
"We used to joke he'd die on a woman, remember?"
Lewis half-nodded.
"She was nineteen. Natalie Perec. Quite an educated girl, apparently. And lovely. Long red hair. You remember how
Phillipe loved redheads?"
"Nineteen? He has nineteen year olds?"
She didn't reply. Lewis sat down, knowing his pacing of the room irritated her. In profile she was still beautiful, and
the wash of yellow-blue through the window softened the lines on her face, magically erasing fifty years of living.
"Where is he?"
"T hey locked him up . They say he's dangerous. T hey say he cou ld kill again."
Lewis shoo k his head. T here was a p ain at his temples, which might go if he could only close his eyes.
"H e needs to se e you. V ery badly."
But maybe sleep was just an escape. Here was something even he couldn't be a spectator to.
Phillipe Laborteaux stared at Lewis across the bare, scored table, his face weary and lost. They had greeted each
other only with handshakes; all other physical contact was strictly forbidden.
"I am in desp air," he said. "She's de ad. M y Natalie is dea d."
"T ell me what hap pened."
"I have a little apartment in Montmartre. In the Rue des M artyrs. Just a room really, to entertain friends. Catherine
always keeps number 1 1 SO neat, you know, a ma n can't spread himself out. Natalie used to spend a lo t of time with
me there: everyone in the house knew her. She w as so good natured, so b eautiful. She was studying to go into
Medica l Scho ol. Bright. And she loved me."
Phillipe was still handso me. In fact, as the fashion in looks came full circle his elegance, his alm ost dashing face, his
unhurried charm were the order o f the day. A breath o f a lost age, perhaps.
"I went out on Sunday m orning: to the p atisserie. A nd wh en I came b ack. . ."
The words failed him for a moment.
"Lewis..."
His eyes filled with tears of frustration. This was so difficult for him his mouth refused to make the necessary
sounds.
"Do n't -" Lewis began.
"I want to tell you, Lewis. I want you to know, I want you to see her as I saw her - so you know what there is.

there is . . . wha t there is in the world ."
The tears ran down his face in two graceful rivulets. He gripped Lewis" hand in his, so tightly it ached.
"She w as covered in blood. In wound s. Skin torn off hair torn out. Her tongue wa s on the pillow, Lewis.
Imagine that. She'd bitten it off in her terror. It was just lying on the pillow. And her eyes, all swimming in blood,
like she'd wept blood . She was the dearest thing in all cre ation, Lewis. She was b eautiful."
"N o mo re."
"I want to die, Lewis."
"N o."
"I don't want to live now . There's no p oint."
"T hey wo n't find you gu ilty."
"I don't care, Lewis. Y ou must look after C atherine now . I read about the exhibition -"
He almost smiled.
"- W ond erful for yo u. W e always said, didn't we? before the war, you'd be the one to be fam ous, I'd b e -"
The smile had gone.
"- notorious. They say terrible things about me now, in the newspapers. An old man going with young girls, you see,
that doesn't make me very wholesome. They probab ly think I lost my temper because I couldn't perform with her.
That's what they think, I'm certain." He lost his way, halted, began again. "You must look after Catherine. She's got
money, but no friends. She's too cool, you see. Too hurt inside; and that makes people wary of her. You have to stay
with her."
"I shall."
"I know. I kn ow. T hat's why I feel happ y, really, to just..:
"N o, Phillipe."
"Just die. T here's no thing left for us, Lewis. T he wo rld's too hard."
Lewis thought of the snow, and the ice-floes, and saw the sense in dying.
The officer in charge of the investigation was less than helpful, though Lewis introduced himself as a relative of the
esteemed Detective Dupin. Lewis's contempt for the shoddily-dressed weasel, sitting in his cluttered hole of an
office, made the interview crackle with suppressed anger.
"Your friend," the Inspector said, picking at the raw cuticle of his thumb, "is a murderer, Monsieur Fox. It is as
simple as that. T he evid ence is overwhelm ing."
"I can't believe that."
"Believe what you like to believe, that's your prerogative. We have all the evidence we need to convict Phillipe
Laborteaux of murder in the first degree. It was a cold-blooded killing and he will be punished to the full extent of
the law. T his is my promise."
"What evidence do you have against him?"
"Mo nsieur Fox; I am not beholden to you. What evidence we have is our business. Suffice it to say that no other
person was seen in the house during the time that the accused claims he was at some fictional patisserie; and as
access to the ro om in which the dec eased was found is only possible by the stairs -"
"What about a window?"
"A plain wall: three flights up. M aybe an acroba t: an acro bat might do it."
"And the state of the body?"
The Inspector mad e a face . Disgust.
"H orrible. Skin and muscle strip ped from the bone. All the spine exposed. B lood ; much bloo d."
"Phillipe is seventy."
"So?"
"An old man w ould not be capa ble -"
"In other respects," the Inspector interrupted, "he seems to have been quite capable, oui? The lover, yes? The
passio nate lover: he was capab le of that."
"And what motive would you claim he had?"
His m outh scalloped, his eyes rolled and he tapped his chest.
"Le coeu r humain," he said, as if despairing of reason in affairs of the heart. "Le coeu r humain, quel mystre, n"estce pas?" and exhaling the stench of his ulcer at Lewis, he proffered the open door.
"M erci, M onsieur Fo x. I understand your confusio n, oui? But you are wasting yo ur time. A crime is a crime . It is
real; not like your paintings."
He saw the surprise on Lewis's face.
"Oh, I am not so uncivilized as not to know your repu tation, Mo nsieur Fox. B ut I ask you, make yo ur fictions as best

you ca n; that is your genius, oui? Mine; to investigate the truth."
Lewis couldn't bear the weasel's cant any longer.
"T ruth?" he snapp ed back at the Inspector. "You wo uldn't kno w the truth if you tripp ed over it."
The weasel looked as though he'd been slapped with a wet fish.
It was precious little satisfaction; but it made Lewis feel better for at least five minutes.
The house on the Rue d es Martyrs was not in good condition, and Lewis could smell the damp as he climbed to the
little room on the third floor. Doo rs opened as he passed, and inquiring whispers ushered him up the stairs, but
nobody tried to stop him. The room where the atrocity had happened was locked. Frustrated, but not knowing how or
why it would help Phillipe's case to see the interior of the room, he made his way back down the stairs and into the
bitter air.
Catherine was back at the Quai de Bourbon. As soon as Lewis saw her he knew there was something new to hear.
Her gre y hair was loosed from the bun she favoured wearing, and hu ng unbraid ed at her shoulders. Her face was a
sickly yellow -grey by the lamp light. She shivered, even in the clo gged air of the centrally-heated apartm ent.
"What's wrong?" he asked.
"I went to Phillipe's apa rtment."
"So did I. It was lock ed."
"I have the key: Phillipe's spare key. I just wanted to pick up a few clothes for him ."
Lewis nodded.
"And?"
"So meb ody else was there."
"Police?"
"N o."
"Who?"
"I couldn't see. I don't know exactly. He was dressed in a big coat, scarf over his face. Hat. Gloves." She paused.
Then, "he had a razo r, Lewis."
"A razor?"
"An open razor, like a barb er."
Something jangled in the back of Lewis Fox's mind.
An open razor; a man dressed so well he couldn't be recognized.
"I was terrified."
"D id he hurt you? " She shook her head . "I screamed and he ran away." "D idn't say anything to you?" "N o."
"Maybe a friend of Phillipe's?" "I know Phillipe's friends." "Then of the girl. A brother." "Perhaps. But -""What?"
"T here was som ething odd about him. H e smelt of perfume, stank of it, and he walked with such mincing little steps,
even though he wa s huge."
Lewis put his arm around her.
"W hoever it was, you scared the m off. Y ou just mustn't go back there. If we have to fetch clothes for P hillipe, I'll
gladly go."
"T hank you. I feel a foo l: he m ay have just stumb led in. Com e to loo k at the m urde r-c hamb er. Peo ple do that, d on 't
they? O ut of som e mo rbid fascinatio n. . ."
"T omo rrow I'll speak to the W easel."
"Weasel?"
"Insp ector Marais. H ave him search the place."
"Did you see Phillipe?"
"Y es."
"Is he well?"
Lewis said no thing for a long m ome nt.
"H e wants to die, C atherine. He 's given up fighting already, before he goes to trial."
"B ut he didn't do anything."
"W e can't prove that."
"Y ou're always bo asting ab out your ancestors. Y our b lessed Dup in. Yo u pro ve it. . ."
"Where do I start?"
"Sp eak to some of his friends, Lewis. Please. M aybe the woman had enemies."
Jacques Solal stared at Lewis through his round-bellied spectacles, his irises huge and distorted through the glass. He
was the worse for too much cognac.

"She had n't got any enemies," he sa id, "no t her. Oh mayb e a few w ome n jealo us of her beauty. . ."
Lewis toyed with the wrapped cubes of sugar that had come with his coffee. Solal was as uninformative as he was
drunk; but unlikely as it seemed Catherine had described the runt across the table as Phillipe's closest friend.
"Do you think Phillipe murdered her?"
Solal pursed his lips.
"Who knows?"
"What's your instinct?"
"Ah; he was my friend . If I knew w ho had killed her I wo uld say so ."
It seemed to be the truth. Maybe the little man was simply drowning his sorrows in cognac.
"H e was a gentlem en," S olal said , his eyes drifting towards the street. T hrough the steamed glass of the B rasserie
windo w brave Parisians were struggling through the fury of another blizza rd, vainly attemp ting to keep their dignity
and their posture in the teeth of a gale.
"A gentleman," he said again.
"And the girl?"
"She was b eautiful, and he w as in love with her. She had other ad mirers, of course. A woma n like her -"
"Jealous admirers?"
"Who knows?"
Again: who knows? The inquiry hung on the air like a shrug. Who knows? W ho knows? Lewis began to understand
the Insp ector's passion for truth. For the first time in ten yea rs perhaps a goa l appeared in his life; an am bition to
shoot this indifferent "who knows?" out of the air. To discover what had happened in that room on the Rue des
Martyrs. Not an approximation, not a fictionalized account, but the truth, the absolute, unquestionable truth.
"Do you remember if there were any particular men who fancied her?" he asked.
Solal grinned. He only had two teeth in his lower jaw.
"O h yes. There w as one."
"Who?"
"I never knew his nam e. A b ig ma n: I saw him o utsid e the house three or four tim es. T hough to sme ll him you'd
have thought -"
He mad e an unmistakable face that implied he thought the man was homosexual. The arched eyebrows and the
pursed lips m ade him look do ubly ridiculous behind the thick spectac les.
"He smelt?"
"O h yes."
"Of what?"
"Perfume, Lewis. Perfume."
Som ewhere in Paris there was a m an who had know n the girl P hillipe loved. Jealous rage had o verco me him . In a fit
of uncontro llable anger he had broken into Phillipe 's apartment and slaughtered the girl. It was as c lear as that.
Somewhere in P aris.
"Another cognac?"
Solal shook his head.
"Already I'm sick," he said.
Lewis called the waiter across, and as he did so his eye alighted on a cluster of newspaper clippings pinned behind
the bar.
Solal followed his gaze.
"Phillipe: he liked the pictures," he said.
Lewis stood up.
"H e came here, some times, to see them ."
The cuttings were o ld, stained and fading. S ome were p resum ably of purely lo cal intere st. Accounts o f a fireball
seen in a nearby street. Another about a boy of two burned to death in his cot. One concerned an escaped puma; one,
an unpub lished manuscript by Rimb aud; a third (accomp anied by a p hotograp h) detailed casualties in a plane crash
at Orleans airport. But there were other cuttings too; some far older than others. Atrocities, bizarre murders, ritual
rapes, an advertisem ent for " Fanto mas" , another for C octea u's "La B elle et La Bete". And alm ost buried un der this
emb arrassm ent of bizarreries, was a sepia p hotograph so ab surd it co uld have co me fro m the hand of M ax Ernst. A
half-ring of well-dressed gentlemen, many sporting the thick moustaches popular in the eighteen-nineties, were
grouped around the vast, bleeding bulk of an ape, which was suspended by its feet from a lamppo st. The faces in the
picture bore expressions of mute pride; of absolute authority over the dead beast, which Lewis clearly recognized as
a gorilla. Its inverted head had an almost noble tilt in death. Its brow was deep and furrowed, its jaw, though
shattered by a fearsome wound, was thinly bearded like that of a patrician, and its eyes, rolled back in its head,

seemed full of concern for this merciless world. They reminded Lewis, those rolling eyes, of the Weasel in his hole,
tapping his chest.
"Le coeu r humain."
Pitiful.
"W hat is that?" he asked the acne-ridden barman, pointing at the picture of the dead gorilla.
A shrug was the reply: indifferent to the fate of men and apes.
"Who knows?" said Solal at his back. "Who knows?"
It was not the ape of Poe's story, that was certain. That tale had been told in 1835, and the photograp h was far more
recent. Besides, the ape in the picture was a gorilla: clearly a gorilla.
Had history repe ated itself? Had an other ape, a different species but an ape nevertheless, been loosed on the streets
of Pa ris at the turn of the ce ntury?
And if so, if the story of the ape could repeat itself once why not twice?
As Lewis walked through the freezing night back to the apartment at the Quai de Bourbon, the imagined repetition
of events became more attractive; and now further symmetry presented itself to him. Was it possible that he, the
great nephew of C. Auguste D upin, m ight becom e involved in another pursuit, not entirely dissim ilar from the first?
The key to Phillipe's room at the Rue des M artyrs was icy in Lewis's hand, and though it was now well past midnight
he couldn't help but turn off at the bridge and make his way up the Boulevard de Sebastopol, west on to Boulevard
Bonne-Nouvelle, then north again towards the Place Pigalle. It was a long, exhausting trudge, but he felt in need of
the cold air, to keep his head clear o f emotionalism. It took him an hour and a half to reach the Rue des M artyrs.
It was Saturday night, and there was still a lot of noise in a number of the rooms. Lewis made his way up the two
flights as quietly as he could, his presence masked by the din. The key turned easily, and the door swung open.
Street lights illuminated the room. T he be d, which dominated the sp ace, was bare. Presumably she ets and blankets
had been taken away for forensic tests. The eruption of blood onto the mattress was a mulberry colour in the gloom.
Otherwise, there was no sign of the violence the room had witnessed.
Lewis reached for the light switch, and snapped it on. Nothing happened. He stepped deeply into the room and stared
up at the light fixture. The bulb was shattered.
He half thought of retreating, of leaving the room to darkness, and returning in the morning when there were fewer
shadows. B ut as he sto od under the broken bulb his eyes began to pierce the gloom a little better, and he bega n to
make out the shape of a large teak chest of drawers along the far wall. Surely it was a matter of a few minutes work
to find a change of clothes for Phillipe. Otherwise he would have to return the next day; another long journey
through the snow. Better to do it now, and sav e his bones.
The room was large, and ha d been left in chaos by the police. Lewis stumbled and cursed as he crossed to the chest
of drawers, tripping over a fallen lamp, and a shattered vase. Downstairs the howls and shrieks of a well-advanced
party drowned any noise he made. W as it an orgy or a fight? The no ise could have been either.
He struggled with the top drawer of the teak chest, and eventually wrenched it open, ferreting in the depths for the
bare essentials of Phillipe's comfort: a clean undershirt, a pair of socks, initialed handkerchiefs, beautifully pressed.
He sneezed. The chilly weather had thickened the catarrh on his chest and the mucus in his sinuses. A handkerchief
was to hand, and he blew his nose, clearing his blocked nostrils. For the first time the smell of the room came to him.
One odour predominated, above the damp, and the stale vegetables. Perfume, the lingering scent of perfume.
He turned into the darkened room, hearing his bones creak, and his eyes fell on the shadow behind the bed. A huge
shadow, a bulk that swelled as it rose into view.
It was, he saw at once, the razor-wielding stranger. He was here: in waiting.
Curiously, Lewis wasn't frightened.
"W hat are you doing?" he demanded, in a loud, strong voice.
As he emerged from his hiding p lace the face of the stranger cam e into the watery light from the street; a broad , flatfeatured, flayed face. H is eyes were deep -set, but without malice; and he was smiling, smiling generously, at Lewis.
"W ho are you?" Lewis asked again.
The man shoo k his head; shook his body, in fact, his gloved hands gesturing around his mouth. Was he dum b? T he
shaking of the head was more violent no w, as though he was ab out to have a fit.
"Are you all right?"
Suddenly, the shaking stopped, and to his surprise Lewis saw tears, large, syrupy tears well up in the stranger's eyes
and roll down his rough cheeks and into the bush of his beard.
As if asha med of his disp lay of feeling s, the man turned away fro m the light, making a thick no ise of sobbing in his
throat, and exited. Lewis followed, more curious about this stranger than nerv ous of his intentions.

"W ait!"
The man was already half-way down the first flight of stairs, nimble despite his build.
"Please wait, I want to talk to you," Lewis began down the stairs after him, but the pursuit was lost before it was
started. Lewis" joints were stiff with age and the cold, and it was late. No time to be running after a much younger
man, along a pavement made lethal with ice and snow. He chased the stranger as far as the door and then watched
him run off down the street; his gait was mincing as Catherine had said. Almost a waddle, ridiculous in a man so big.
The smell of his perfume was already snatched away by the north-east wind. Breathless, Lewis climbed the stairs
again, past the din of the party, to claim a set of clothes for Phillipe.
The next day Paris woke to a blizzard of unprecedented ferocity. The calls to Mass went unrequited, the hot Sunday
croissants went un-bought, the newspapers lay unread on the vendors" stalls. Few people had either the nerve or the
motive to step outside into the howling gale. They sat by their fires, hugging their knees, and dreamt of spring.
Catherine wanted to go to the priso n to visit Phillipe, but Lewis insisted tha t he go alone. It was no t simply the cold
weather that made him cautious on her behalf; he had difficult words to say to Phillipe, delicate questions to ask him.
After the previous night's encounter in his room, he had no doub t that Phillipe had a rival, probably a murderous
rival. T he only way to save Phillipe 's life, it seem ed , was to tra ce the m an. And if that meant delving into P hillipe 's
sexual arrangements, then so be it. But it wasn't a conversa tion he, or Phillipe, wo uld have wanted to cond uct in
Catherine's presence.
The fresh clothes Lewis had brought were searched , then given to Phillipe, who took them w ith a nod of thanks.
"I went to the house last night to fetch these for you."
"O h."
"There was som ebody in the room already." Phillipe's jaw muscle began to churn, as he ground his teeth together.
He wa s avoiding Le wis's eyes.
"A big man, with a beard. Do you know him, or of him?"
"N o."
"Phillipe -"" No !"
"The same man attacked Catherine," Lewis said.
"W hat?" Phillipe had b egun to tremble. "W ith a razo r."
"Attacked her?" Phillipe said . "Are you su re?" "O r was go ing to."
"N o! He would never have touched her. N ever!"
"Who is it Phillipe? Do you know?"
"Tell her not to go there again; please, Lewis -" His eyes implored. "Please, for God's sake tell her never to go there
again. W ill you do that? O r you. N ot you either."
"Who is it?"
"T ell her."
"I will. But you must tell me who this man is, Phillipe." He shook his head, grinding his teeth together audibly now.
"Y ou wo uldn't und erstand , Lewis. I couldn't expec t you to understand."
"T ell me; I want to he lp."
"Just let me d ie."
"Who is he?"
"Just let me d ie. . . I want to forget, why do you try to m ake m e rememb er? I want to -"
He looked up again: his eyes were bloodshot, and red-rimmed from nights of tears. But now it seemed there were no
more tears left in him; just an arid place where there had been an honest fear of d eath, a lo ve of love, and an appetite
for life. What met Lewis's eyes was a universal indifference:
to continuation, to self-preservation, to feeling.
"She was a whore," he sudd enly exclaimed . His hands were fists. Lewis had never seen P hillipe make a fist in his
life. Now his nails bit into the soft flesh of his palm until blood began to flow.
"W hore," he said again, his voice too loud in the little cell.
"Keep your row down," snapped the guard.
"A whore!" T his time Phillipe hissed the accusation through teeth exposed like those of an angry baboon.
Lewis could make no sense of the transformation.
"You began all this -" Phillipe said, looking straight at Lewis, meeting his eyes fully for the first time. It was a bitter
accusation, though Lewis didn't understand its significance.
"Me?"
"W ith your sto ries. W ith your d amn Dup in."
"Dupin?"

"It was all a lie: all stupid lies. W ome n, murder-"
"You mean the Rue Morgue story?"
"Y ou were so p roud of that, weren't you? All those silly lies. None of it was true."
"Y es it was."
"N o. It never was, Lewis: it was a story, that's all. Dupin, the Rue M orgue, the murders. . ."
His voice trailed away, as though the next words were unsayable.
the ape."
Those were the word s: the apparently unspeakable wa s spoken as though each syllable had b een cut from his throat.
the ape."
"What about the ape?"
"There are beasts, Lewis. Some of them are pitiful; circus animals. They have no brains; they are born victims. Then
there are othe rs."
"What others?"
"N atalie was a who re!" he screamed again, his eyes big as saucers. H e took hold of Lew is" lapels, and bega n to
shake him. Everybody else in the little room turned to look at the two old men as they wrestled over the table.
Convicts and their sweethearts grinned as Phillipe was dragged off his friend, his words descending into incoherence
and obscenity as he thrashed in the warder's grip.
"W hore! Whore! Whore!" was all he could say as they hauled him back to his cell.
Catherine met Lewis at the door of her apartment. She was shaking and tearful. Beyond her, the room was wrecked.
She sobbed against his chest as he comforted her, but she was inconsolable. It was many years since he'd comforted
a woman, and he'd lost the knack of it. He was embarrassed instead of soothing, and she knew it. She broke away
from his embrace, happier untouched.
"He was here," she said.
He didn't need to ask who. The stranger, the tearful, razor-wielding stranger.
"What did he want?"
"He kept saying "P hillipe" to me. Alm ost saying it; grunting it more than saying it: and when I didn't answer he just
destro yed the furniture, the vases. H e wasn't even loo king for anything: he just wa nted to make a mess."
It made her furious: the uselessness of the attack.
The apa rtment was in ruins. Lewis w andered through the fragments of porcelain and sh redd ed fab ric, shaking his
head . In his mind a co nfusion of tearful faces: Catherine, Phillipe, the stranger. E veryone in his na rrow world , it
seemed, wa s hurt and broken. Everyone was suffering; and yet the source, the heart o f the suffering, was no where to
be found.
Only Phillipe had p ointed an acc using finge r: at Lewis himself.
"Y ou began all this." W eren't those his wo rds? "you bega n all this."
But how?
Lewis stood at the window. Three of the small panes had been cracked b y flying debris, and a wind was insinuating
itself into the apartment, with frost in its teeth. He looked across at the ice-thickened waters of the Seine; then a
movement caught his eye. His stomach turned.
The full face of the stranger was turned up to the window , his expression wild. T he clothes he had always worn so
impeccably were in disarray, and the look on his face was of utter, utter despair, so pitiful as to be almost tragic. Or
rather, a perfo rmance of tragedy: an acto r's pain. Even as Lewis stared d own at him the stranger raised his arms to
the window in a gesture that seemed to beg either forgiveness or understanding, or both.
Lewis backed away from the appeal. It was too much; all too much. The next moment the stranger was walking
across the courtyard away from the apartment. The mincing walk had deteriorated into a rolling lope. Lewis uttered a
long, low moan of recognition as the ill-dressed bulk disappeared from view.
"Lewis?"
It wasn't a man's walk, that roll, that swagger. It was the gait of an upright beast who'd been taught to walk, and now,
without its master, was losing the trick o f it.
It was an ape.
Oh God, oh God , it was an ape.
"I have to see Phillipe Laborteaux."
"I'm sorry, M onsieur; but p rison visitors -"" This is a matter of life and death, officer." "Easily said, M onsieur."
Lewis risked a lie.
"H is sister is dying. I beg yo u to have some comp assion." "O h.. .well..."

A little do ubt. Le wis levered a little further. "A few minutes only; to settle arra ngem ents." " Can't it wait until
tomorrow?"
"She'll be dead by morning."
Lewis hated talking about Catherine in such a way, even for the purpose of this deception, but it was necessary; he
had to see P hillipe. If his theory was correct, history might re peat itself before the night was o ut.
Phillipe had b een woken from a sed ated sleep. H is eyes were circled with darkness.
"What do you want?"
Lewis didn't even attempt to proceed any further with his lie; Phillipe was drugged as it was, and probably confused.
Best to confront him with the truth, and see what cam e of it.
"You kept an ape, didn't you?"
A look of terror crossed Phillipe's face, slowed by the drugs in his blood, but plain enough.
"Didn't you?"
"Lewis. . ." Phillipe looked so very old.
"Answer me, Phillipe, I beg you: before it's too late. Did you keep an ape?"
"It was an experim ent, that's all it was. An experiment."
"Why?"
"Y our stories. Your d amn stories: I wanted to see if it was true that they were w ild. I wanted to make a man of it."
"M ake a man o f it."
"And that whore. . ."
"N atalie."
"She seduced it."
Lewis felt sick. This was a convolution he hadn't anticipated.
"Seduced it?"
"W hore," Phillipe said , with infinite regret.
"Where is this ape of yours?"
"Y ou'll kill it."
"It broke into the apartment, while Catherine was there. Destroyed everything, Phillipe. It's dangerous now that it has
no master. Don't you understand?"
"Catherine?"
"N o, she's all right."
"It's trained : it wouldn't harm he r. It's watched her, in hid ing. Co me and go ne. Quiet as a m ouse."
"And the girl?"
"It was jealous."
"So it murdered her?"
"Perhap s. I don 't know. I don't want to think about it."
"Why haven't you told them; had the thing destroyed?"
"I don't know if it's true. It's proba bly all a fiction, one of your dam n fictions, just another story."
A sour, wily smile crossed his exhausted face.
"You must know what I mean, Lewis. It could be a story, couldn't it? Like your tales of Dupin. Except that maybe I
mad e it true for a while; did you ever think of that? Maybe I mad e it true."
Lewis stood up. It was a tired debate: reality and illusion. Either a thing was, or was not. Life was not a dream.
"Where is the ape?" he demanded.
Phillipe pointed to his temple.
"Here; where you can never find him ," he said, and spat in Lewis" face. T he spittle hit his lip, like a kiss.
"Y ou don't know what you did . You'll never know."
Lewis wiped his lip as the warders escorted the priso ner out of the ro om a nd back to his happy drugged ob livion. All
he co uld think of now , left alone in the cold interview room, was that P hillipe had it easy. H e'd taken refuge in
pretended guilt, and locked himself away where memory, and revenge, and the truth, the wild, marauding truth,
could never touch him again. He hated Phillipe at that moment, with all his heart. Hated him for the dilettante and
the coward he'd always known him to be. It wasn't a more ge ntle world Phillipe had created around him; it was a
hiding place, as muc h a lie as tha t summ er of 1937 had b een. N o life could be lived the way he'd lived it without a
reckoning c oming sooner or later; and here it was.
That night, in the safety of his cell, Phillipe woke. It was warm , but he w as cold. In the utter dark he chewed at his
wrists until a pulse of blood bubbled into his mouth. He lay back on his bed, and quietly splashed and fountained
away to death, out of sight and out of mind.

The suicide was reported in a small article on the second page of Le Monde. The big news of the following day
however w as the sensational murder o f a redheaded prostitute in a little house off the Rue de Rochechqua nt.
Monique Zevaco had b een found at three o'clock in the morning by her flat ma te, her body in a state so horrib le as to
'defy description".
Despite the alleged impo ssibility of the task, the media se t about desc ribing the indescribable with a morbid will.
Every last scratch, tear and gouging on Monique's partially nude body - tattooed, drooled Le Monde, with a map of
France - was chronicled in detail. As indeed was the appearance of her well-dressed, over-perfumed murderer, who
had apparently watched her at her toilet throug h a small back window, then bro ken in and attacked Mademoise lle
Zevaco in her bathroom. The murderer had then fled down the stairs, bumping into the flat mate who would minutes
after discover M ademoiselle Zevaco's mutilated corpse. Only one commentator made any connection between the
murder at the Rue des Martyrs and the slaughter of Mme Zevaco; and he failed to pick up on the curious coincidence
that the accused Phillipe Laborteaux had that same night taken his own life.
The funeral took place in a storm, the cortege edging its pitiful way through the abandoned streets towards
Montparnasse with the lashing snow entirely blotting out the road ahead. Lewis sat with Catherine and Jacques Solal
as they laid Phillipe to rest. Every one of his circle had deserted him, unwilling to attend the funeral of a suicide and
of a suspected murderer. His wit, his good looks, his infinite capacity to charm went for nothing at the end.
He was no t, as it turned out, entire ly unmo urned by strangers. As they stoo d at the graveside, the cold cutting into
them, Solal sidled up to Lewis and nudged him.
"What?"
"O ver there. Under the tree." So lal nod ded beyond the praying priest.
The stranger was standing at a distance, almost hidden by the marble mausoleums. A heavy black scarf was wrapped
across his face, and a wide-brimmed hat pulled down over his brow, but his bulk was unmistakable. Catherine had
seen him too. She was shaking as she stood, wrapped round by Lewis's embrace, not just with cold, but with fear. It
was as though the creature was some morbid angel, come to hover a while, and enjoy the grief. It was grotesque, and
eerie, tha t this thing sho uld co me to see P hillipe co nsigned to the frozen earth. "W hat did it feel? Anguish? Guilt?
Yes, did it feel guilt?
It knew it had been seen, and it turned its back, shambling away. Without a word to Lewis, Jacques Solal slipped
away from the grave in pursuit. In a short while both the stranger and his pursuer were erased by the snow.
Back at the Quai de Bourbon Catherine and Lewis said nothing of the incident. A kind of barrier had appeared
between them, forb idding contact on any level but the m ost trivial. T here w as no purp ose in analysis, and none in
regrets. Phillipe was dead. The past, their past togethe r, was dead. This final chap ter in their jo int lives soured utterly
everything that preceded it, so that no shared memory could be enjoyed without the pleasure being spoilt. Phillipe
had died horribly, devouring his own flesh and blood, perhaps driven mad by a knowledge he possessed of his own
guilt and depravity. No innocence, no history of joy could remain unstained by that fact. Silently they mourned the
loss, not only of Phillipe, but of their own past. Lewis understood now Phillipe's reluctance to live when there was
such loss in the world.
Solal rang. B reathless after his chase, b ut elated , he spo ke in whispers to Lewis, clearly enjoying the excitement.
"I'm at the Gare du No rd, and I've found out where our friend lives. I've found him, Lewis!"
"Excellent. I'll come straight away. I'll meet you o n the step s of the G are du No rd. I'll take a cab: ten minutes."
"It's in the ba sement of num ber sixteen, R ue de s Fleurs. I'll see you there -,
"D on't go in, Jacques. W ait for me. Do n't -"The telephone clicked and S olal was gone . Lewis re ached for his coat.
"Who was that?"
She asked, but she didn't want to kno w. Lew is shrugged on his overcoat and said: "No bod y at all. Do n't worry. I
won't be long."
"Take your scarf," she said, not glancing over her shoulder.
"Y es. Thank you."
"Y ou'll catch a chill."
He left her gazing over the night-clad Seine, watching the ice-floes dance together on the black water.
W hen he arrived at the house on the Rue des Fleurs, Solal was not to be seen, but fresh footprints in the powdery
snow led to the front door of number sixteen and then, foiled, went around the back of the house. Lewis followed
them. As he stepped into the yard behind the house, through a rotted gate that had been crudely forced by Solal, he
realized he had come without a weapon. Best to go back, perhaps, find a crowbar, a knife; something. Even as he

was debating with him self, the back do or opened, and the stra nger appeared, dresse d in his no w familiar overcoat.
Lewis flattened himself against the wall of the yard, where the shadows were deepest, certain that he would be seen.
But the beast was about other b usiness. H e stood in the d oorway with his face fully exposed, and for the first time, in
the reflected moonlight off the snow, Lewis co uld see the creature's physiogno my plainly. Its face was freshly
shaved; and the scent of cologne was strong, even in the open air. Its skin was pink as a peach, though nicked in one
or two places by a careless blade. Lewis thought of the open-razor it had apparently threatened Catherine with. Was
that what its business had been in Phillipe's room, the purloining of a good razor? It was pulling its leather gloves on
over its wide, shaved hands, making small coughing noises in its throat that sounded almost like grunts of
satisfaction. Lewis had the impression that it was preparing itself for the outside world; and the sight was touching as
much as intimidating. All this thing wanted was to be human. It was aspiring, in its way, to the model Phillipe had
given it, had nurtured in it. Now, dep rived of its mentor, confused and unhap py, it was attempting to face the wo rld
as it had been taught to do. There was no way back for it. Its days of innocence had gone: it could never be an
unambitious beast again. Trapped in its new persona, it had no choice but to continue in the life its master had
awoken its taste for. Without glancing in Lewis" direction, it gently closed the door behind it and crossed the yard,
its walk transforming in those few steps from a simian roll to the mincing wad dle that it used to simulate huma nity.
Then it was gone.
Lewis waited a moment in the shad ows, b reathing shallowly. Every bo ne in his b ody ached with cold now, and his
feet were numb. The beast showed no sign of returning; so he ventured out of his hiding place and tried the door. It
was not locked. As he stepped inside a stench struck him: the sickly sweet smell of rotten fruit mingled with the
cloying cologne: the zoo and the boud oir.
He edged down a flight of slimy stone steps, and along a short, tiled corridor towards a door. It too was unlocked;
and the bare bulb inside illuminated a bizarre scene.
On the floor, a large, some what thre ad-bare P ersian carpet; sparse furnishings; a bed , rough ly covered with blankets
and stained hessian; a wardrobe, bulging with oversize clothes; discarded fruit in abundance, some trodden into the
floor; a bucket, filled with straw and stinking of droppings. On the wall, a large crucifix. On the mantelpiece a
pho tograph of Catherine, Lewis and Phillipe together in a sun lit past, smiling. At the sink, the crea ture's shaving kit.
Soap, brush, razor. Fresh suds. On the dresser a pile of money, left in careless abundance beside a pile of
hypod ermics and a collection of sma ll bottles. It was warm in the beast's garret; perhaps the furnace for the house
roared in an adjacent cellar. Solal was not there.
Suddenly, a noise.
Lewis turned to the door, expecting the ape to be filling it, teeth bared, eyes demonic. But he had lost all orientation;
the noise was not from the do or but from the wardrobe. B ehind the pile o f clothes there was a movement.
"So lal"
Jacques Solal half fell out of the wardrobe, and sprawled across the Persian carpet. His face was disfigured by one
foul wound , so that it was all but impossible to find any pa rt of his features that was still Jacque s.
The creature had taken hold of his lip and pulled his muscle off his bone, as though removing a balaclava.
His exposed teeth chattered away in nervous response to oncoming death; his limbs jangled and shook. But Jacques
was alre ady go ne. T hese shudders and jerks were no t signs of tho ught or personality, just the din o f passing. Lewis
knelt at Solal's side; his stoma ch was strong. During the war, being a co nscientious objec tor, he had vo lunteered to
serve in the Military Hospital, and there were few transformations of the human body he had no t seen in one
com binatio n or another. Tenderly, he cradled the bo dy, not noticing the blood. H e had n't loved this man, scarce ly
cared for him at all, but now all he wanted was to take him away, out of the ape's cage, and find him a human grave.
He'd take the photograph too. That was too much, giving the beast a photograph of the three friends together. It
made him hate Phillipe more than ever.
He hauled the body off the carpet. It required a gargantuan effort, and the sultry heat in the room, after the chill of
the outside wo rld, ma de him dizzy. H e cou ld feel a jittering nervousness in his limbs. H is bod y was clo se to
betraying him, he knew it; close to failing, to losing its coherence and collapsing.
Not here. In God's name, not here.
Maybe he sho uld go no w, and find a phone. T hat would b e wise. Call the police, yes. . . call Catherine, yes .
even find som ebo dy in the house to help him. B ut that would mean lea ving Jacques in the lair, for the beast to
assault again, and he ha d beco me strangely pro tective of the corpse; he was unwilling to leave it alone. In an ang uish
of confused feelings, unable to leave J acques yet unable to move him far, he stoo d in the m iddle of the ro om a nd did
nothing at all. T hat was best; yes. N othing at all. To o tired, too weak. N othing at all was b est.
The reverie went on interminably; the old man fixed beyond movement at the crux of his feelings, unable to go

forward into the future, or back into the soiled past. Una ble to remembe r. Unable to forget.
Waiting, in a dreamy half-life, for the end of the world.
It came home noisily like a drunken man, and the sound of its opening the outer door stirred Lewis into a slow
respo nse. W ith some difficulty he hauled Jacq ues into the wardrobe, and hid there him self, with the fac eless head in
his lap.
There was a voice in the room, a woman's voice. Maybe it wasn't the beast, after all. But no: through the crack of the
wardrobe do or Lewis could see the beast, and a red-haired young woman with him. She was talking incessantly, the
perpetual trivia of a spaced-out mind.
"Y ou've go t more ; oh you sweetie, oh you dea r man, that's wond erful. Lo ok at all this stuff."
She had pills in her hands and w as swallowing them like sweets, gleeful as a child at Christmas.
"W here d id you get all this? OK , if you do n't want to tell me, it's fine by me."
W as this Phillipe's doing too, or had the ape stolen the stuff for his own purposes? Did he regularly seduce
redhead ed pro stitutes with drugs?
The girl's grating babble was calming now, as the pills took effect, sedating her, transporting her to a private world.
Lewis watched , entranced, as she b egan to und ress.
"It's so. . . hot. . .in here."
The ape watched, his back to Lewis. What expression did that shaved face wear? Was there lust in its eyes, or
dou bt?
The girl's breasts were beautiful, though her body was rather too thin. The young skin was white, the nipples flowerpink. She raised her arms over her head and as she stretched the perfect globes rose and flattened slightly. The ape
reached a wide hand to her bod y and tenderly plucked at one of her nipples, rolling it between dark-meat fingers.
The girl sighed.
"Shall I . . . take everything off?"
The monkey grunted.
"You don't say much, do you?"
She shimmied out of her red skirt. Now she was naked but for a pair of knickers. She lay on the bed stretching again,
luxuriating in her body and the welcome heat of the room, not even bothering to look at her admirer.
W edged underneath Solal's body, Lewis began to feel dizzy again. His lower limbs were now completely numb, and
he had no feeling in his right arm, which was pressed against the back of the wardrobe, yet he didn't dare move. The
ape was capable of anything, he knew that. If he was discovered what might it not choose to do, to him and to the
girl?
Every part o f his bod y was no w either nerveless, or wracke d with p ain. In his lap So lal's seeping bod y seemed to
become heavier with every moment. His spine was screaming, and the back of his neck pained him as though
pierced with hot knitting-need les. The ago ny was b ecoming unbearable; he began to think he would die in this
pathetic hiding place, while the ape made love.
The girl sighed, and Lewis lo oked aga in at the bed. T he ap e had its hand betwe en her legs, and she squirmed beneath
its ministrations.
"Y es, oh yes," she said again and again, as her lover stripped her co mpletely.
It was too much. The dizziness throbbed through Lewis" cortex. Was this death? The lights in the head, and the
whine in the ears?
He closed his eyes, blotting out the sight of the lovers, but unable to shut out the noise. It seemed to go on forever,
invading his head . Sighs, laughter, little shrieks.
At last, darkness.
Lewis woke on an invisible rack; his body had been wrenched out of shape by the limitations of his hiding-place. He
looked up. The d oor of the wardrobe was open, and the ape was staring down at him, its mouth attempting a grin. It
was naked; and its body was almost entirely shaved. In the cleft of its immense chest a small gold crucifix glinted.
Lewis recognized the jewellery immediately. He had bo ught it for Phillipe in the Champs Elysees just before the
war. Now it nestled in a tuft of reddish-orange hair. The beast proffered a hand to Lewis, and he automatically took
it. The coarse-palmed grip hauled him from under Solal's body. H e cou ldn't stand straight. H is legs were rubbery, his
ankles wouldn't support him. The beast took hold of him, and steadied him. His head spinning, Lewis looked down
into the wardrobe , where Solal was lying, tucked up like a baby in its wom b, face to the wa ll.
The beast closed the door on the corpse, and helped L ewis to the sink, where he was sick.
"Phillipe?" He dimly realized that the woman was still here: in the bed: just woken after a night of love.
"Phillipe: who's this?" She was scrabbling for pills on the table beside the bed. The beast sauntered across and
snatched them from her hands.

"Ah.. . Phillipe. . . please. Do you want me to go with this one as well? I will if you want. Just give me back the
pills."
She gestured towards Lewis.
"I don't usually go with old men."
The ape growled at her. The expression on her face changed, as though for the first time she had an inkling of what
this john was. But the thought was too difficult for her drugged mind, and she let it go.
"Please, Phillipe. . ." she whimpered.
Lewis was looking at the ape. It had taken the photograph from the mantelpiece. Its dark nail was on Lewis" picture.
It was smiling. It recognized him, even though forty-odd years had drained so much life from him.
"Lewis," it said, finding the word quite easy to say.
The old m an had nothing in his stomach to vomit, and no harm left to feel. This was the end of the century, he
should be ready for anything. Even to be greeted as a friend of a friend by the shaved beast that loomed in front of
him. It would not harm him, he knew that. Probably Phillipe had told the ape about their lives together; made the
creature love Catherine and himself as much as it had adored Phillipe.
"Lewis," it said again, and gestured to the woman, (now sitting open-legged on the bed) offering her for his pleasure.
Lewis shook his head.
In and out, in and out, part fiction, part fact.
It had c ome to this; offere d a human wom an by this naked ape. It was the last, God help him, the very last chapter in
the fiction his great uncle had begun. From love to murder back to love again. The love of an ape for a man. He had
caused it, with his dreams of fictional heroes, steeped in absolute reason. He had coaxed Phillipe into making real
the stories of a lost youth. He was to blame. Not this poor strutting ape, lost between the jungle and the Stock
Exchange; not Phillipe, wanting to be young forever; certainly not cold Catherine, who after tonight would be
com pletely alone. It was him. H is the crime, his the gu ilt, his the punishment.
His legs had regained a little feeling, and he began to stagger to the door.
"Aren't you staying?" said the red-haired woman.
"T his thing. . ." he cou ldn't bring himself to name the anim al.
"You mean Phillipe?"
"H e isn't called Phillipe ," Lewis said. "He's not eve n human."
"Please yourself," she said, and shrugged.
To his back, the ap e spo ke, saying his name. But this time, instead of it coming out as a sort o f grunt-wo rd, its
simian palate caught Phillipe's inflexion with unnerving accuracy, better than the most skilful of parrots. It was
Phillipe's voice, perfec tly.
"Lewis," it said.
No t plead ing. Not demanding. Simply naming , for the pleasure of nam ing, an equal.
The passers-by who saw the old man clamber on to the parapet of the Pont du Carrousel stared, but made no attempt
to stop him jumping. He teetered a moment as he stood up straight, then pitched over into the threshing, churning
ice-water.
One or two peo ple wandered to the other side of the bridge to see if the current had caught him: it had. He rose to the
surface, his face b lue-white and b lank as a baby's, then some intricate eddy snatche d at his feet and p ulled him
under. The thick water closed over his head and churned on.
"Who was that?" somebody asked.
"Who knows?"
It was a clear-heaven day; the last of the winter's snow had fallen, and the thaw would begin by noon. Birds, exulting
in the sudden sun, swooped over the Sacr Coeur. Paris began to undress for spring, its virgin white too spoiled to be
worn for long.
In mid -morning, a yo ung wo man with red hair, her arm linked in tha t of a large ugly man, took a leisurely stroll to
the steps of the Sacre Coeur. The sun blessed them. Bells rang.
It was a new day.

THE INHUMAN CONDITION

"ARE Y OU the one then?" Red demanded, seizing hold of the derelict by the shoulder of his squalid gabardine.
"W hat one d'you m ean? " the d irt-caked face replied. He w as scan ning the quartet of young me n who 'd cornered him
with rod ent's eyes. T he tunnel where they'd fou nd him relieving himself was far from hope of help. T hey all knew it
and so, it seem ed, did he. "I don't know what you're talking ab out."
"You've been showing yourself to children," Red said.
The man shoo k his head, a dribble of spittle running from his lip into the matted bush of his beard. "I've done
nothing," he insisted.
Bre ndan sauntered across to the m an, hea vy footsteps ho llow in the tunnel. "W hat's your name?" he inquired, with
deceptive courtesy. Though he lacked Red's height and commanding manner, the scar that inscribed Brendan's cheek
from temple to jaw line suggested he knew suffering, both in the giving and the receiving. "Name," he demanded.
"I'm no t going to ask you again."
"Pope ," the o ld man muttered. " Mr. Pope."
Bre ndan grinne d. "M r. Pope? " he sa id. "W ell, we heard yo u've bee n exposing that rancid little prick of yours to
innocent children. What do you say to that?"
"No ," Pope replied, again shaking his head. "That's not true. I never done nothing like that." When he frowned the
filth on his face cracked like crazy paving, a second skin of grime which Was the accrual of many months. Had it not
been for the fragrance of alcohol off him, which obscured the worst of his bodily stench, it would have been nigh on
impossible to stand within a yard of him. T he man was human re fuse, a shame to his species.
"W hy bother with him?" Karney said . "He stinks."
Red glanced over his shoulder to silence the interruption. At seventeen, Karney was the youngest, and in the
quartet's unspo ken hierarchy scarcely dese rving of an op inion. R ecognizing his error, he shut up, leaving Re d to
return his attention to the vagrant. He pushed Pope back against the wall of the tunnel. The old man expelled a cry as
he struck the concrete; it echoed back and forth. Karney, knowing from past experience how the scene would go
from here, m oved away and studied a gilded cloud of gnats on the ed ge of the tunnel. T hough he enjoyed being with
Red and the other two-the camaraderie, the p etty larcen y, the drinking-this particular game had never b een m uch to
his taste. He couldn't see the sport in finding some dru nken wreck of a man like P ope and beating wh at little sense
was left in his d eranged he ad out of him. It made Karney feel dirty, and he wanted no part of it.
Red pulled Pope off the wall and spa t a stream of abuse into the man's face, then, when he failed to get an adeq uate
response, threw him back against the tunnel a second time, more forcibly than the first, following through by taking
the breathless man by both lapels and shaking him until he rattled. Pope threw a panicky glance up and down the
track. A railway had once run along this route through Highgate and Finsbury Park. The track was long gone,
however, and the site was public parkland, popular with early morning joggers and late-evening lovers Now, in the
middle o f a clammy afternoo n, the track was deserted in both directions.
"H ey," said Catso , "do n't break his bottles."
"Right," said Brendan, "we should dig out the drink b efore we break his head."
At the mention of being robbed of his liquor Pope began
to struggle, but his thrashing only served to enra ge his ca ptor. Red was in a d irty moo d. T he da y, like most days this
Indian summer, had been sticky and dull. Only the dog-end of a wasted season to endure; nothing to do, and no
mon ey to spend. Som e entertainment had been called for, and it had fallen to Red as lion, and Pope as Christian, to
supp ly it.
"Y ou'll get hurt if you struggle," Red ad vised the man, "we only want to see what you've got in yo ur po ckets."
"No ne of your business," Pop e retorted, and for a moment he spoke as a man who had once b een used to being
obeyed. The outburst made Karney turn from the gnats and gaze at Pope's emaciated face. Nameless degeneracies
had drained it of dignity or vigor, but something remained there, glimmering beneath the dirt. What had the man
been, Karney wondered ? A banker perhap s? A judge, now lost to the law forever?
Catso had now stepped into the fray to search Pope's clothes, while Red held his prisoner against the tunnel wall by
the throat. Pope fought off Catso's unwelcome attentions as best he could, his arms flailing like windmills, his eyes
getting progressively wilder. Don't fight, Karney willed him, it'll be worse for you if you do. But the old man seemed
to be on the verge of panic. He was letting out small grunts of protest that were more animal than human.

"Someb ody hold his arms," Catso said, ducking beneath Pope's attack. Brendan grabbed hold of Pope's wrists and
wrenched the man's arms up above his head to facilitate an easier search. E ven now, with any hope of release
dashed, Pope continued to squirm. He managed to land a solid kick to Red's left shin, for which he received a blow
in return. Blood broke from his nose and ran down into his mouth. There was more color where that came from,
Karney knew. H e'd seen pictures aplen ty of spilled people-bright, gleaming coils of guts; yellow fat and purple
lungs-all that brilliance was loc ked up in the gray sack of Pope 's body. W hy such a thought should occur to him
Karney wa sn't certain. It distressed him, and he tried to turn his attention ba ck to the gnats, but Po pe demanded his
attention, loosing a cry of anguish as Catso ripp ed op en one o f his several waistcoats to get to the lower layers.
"Bastards!" Pop e screeched, not seeming to care that his insults would inevitably earn him further blows. "Take your
shifting hands off me or I'll have you dead. All of you I" Red's fist brought an end to the threats, and blood came
running after blood. Pope spat it back at his tormentor. "Don't tempt me,"
Pope said, his voice dropp ing to a m urmur. "I warn you..."
"You smell like a dead dog," Brendan said. "Is that what you are: a dead dog?"
Pope didn't grant him a reply. His eyes were on Catso, who was systematically emptying the coat and waistcoat
pockets and tossing a pathetic collection of keepsakes into the dust on the tunnel floor.
"K arney," Red snapped , "loo k through the stuff, will you? S ee if there's anything wo rth having."
Karney stared at the plastic trinkets and the soiled ribbons, at the tattered sheets of paper (was the man a poet?) and
the wine-bottle corks. "It's all trash," he said.
"Look anyway," Red instructed. "Could be mo ney wrapped in that stuff." Karney made no move to com ply. "Look,
damn you.
Reluctantly, K arney w ent do wn on his haunches and proceeded to sift thro ugh the mound of rubbish Catso was still
depositing in the dirt. He could see at a glance that there was nothing of value there, though perhaps some of the
items-the battered photographs, the all but indecipherable notes-might offer some clue to the man Pope had been
before drink and incipient lunacy had driven the memories away. Curious as he was, Karney wished to respect
Pope's privacy. It was all the ma n had left.
"There's nothing here," he announced after a cursory examination. But Catso hadn't finished his search. The deeper
he dug the more layers of filthy clothing presented themselves to his eager hands. Pope had m ore pockets than a
master magician.
Karney glanced up from the forlorn heap of belongings and found, to his discomfort, that Pope's eyes were on him.
The old man, exhausted and beaten, had given up his protests. He looked pitiful. Karney opened his hand s to signify
that he had taken nothing from the heap. Pope, by way of reply, offered a tiny nod.
"Got it!" Catso yelled triumphantly. "Got the fucker!" and pulled a bottle of vodka from one of the pockets. Pope
was either too feeble to notice that his alcohol supply had been snatched or too tired to care. Whichever way, he
made no sound of complaint as the liquor was stolen from him.
"Any more?" Brendan wanted to know. H e'd begun to giggle, a high-pitched laugh that signaled his escalating
excitement. "M aybe the do g's got more where that came from ," he said, letting Pop e's hands fall and pushing C atso
aside. The latter made no objec tion to the treatme nt. He had his bottle and wa s satisfied. H e smashed off the neck to
avoid contamination and began to drink, squatting in the dirt. Red relinquished his grip on Pope now that Brendan
had taken charge. He w as clearly bored with the gam e. Brendan, on the othe r hand , was just b eginning to get a taste
for it.
Red walked over to Karney and turned over the pile of P ope 's belongings with the toe of his boo t.
"Fucking wash-out," he stated, without feeling.
"Yeah," Karney said, hoping that Red's disaffection would signal an end to the old man's humiliation. But Red had
thrown the bone to Brendan, and he knew better than to try and snatch it ba ck. K arney had seen B rendan's capacity
for violence before and he had no desire to watch the man at work again. Sighing, he stood up and turned his back
on Brendan's activities. The echoes off the tunnel's wall were all too eloquent however, a mingling of punches and
breathless ob scenities. On past evid ence nothing would stop Brend an until his fury was spent. Anyone foo lish
enough to interrupt him would find themselves victims in their turn.
Red had sauntered across to the far side of the tunnel, lit a cigarette, and was watching the punishment meted out
with casual interest. Karney glanced around at Catso. He had descended from squatting to sitting in the dirt, the
bottle of vodka between his outstretched legs. He was grinning to himself, deaf to the drool of pleas falling from
Pope's broken mouth.
Karney felt sick to his stomach. M ore to divert his attention from the beating than out of genuine interest, he
returned to the junk filched from Pope's pockets and turned it over, picking up one of the photographs to examine. It
was of a child, tho ugh it was impo ssible to make any guess as to fam ily resemblanc e. Po pe's face was no w barely
recognizable; one eye had already begun to close as the bruise around it swelled. Karney tossed the photograph back

with the rest of the mementoes. As he d id so he caught sight of a length o f knotted cord which he had previously
passed over. He glanced back up at Pope. The p uffed eye was closed, the other seemed sightless. Satisfied that he
wasn't being watched, Karney pulled the string from where it lay, coiled like a snake in its nest, among the trash.
Knots fascinated him and always had. Though he had never possessed skill with academic puzzles (mathematics was
a mystery to him; the intricacies of language the same) he had always had a taste for more tangible riddles. Given a
knot, a jigsaw o r a railway timetab le, he was happily lost to himself for hours. The interest went back to his
childhood, which had been solitary. With neither father nor siblings to engage his attention what better companion
than a puzzle?
He turned the string over and over, examining the three knots set at inch intervals in the middle of its length. They
were large and asymmetrical an d seemed to serve no d iscernib le purp ose excep t, perha ps, to infatuate minds like his
own. How else to explain their cunning construction except that the knotter had been at pains to create a problem
that was well nigh insoluble? He let his fingers play over the surfaces of the knots, instinctively seeking some
latitude, but they had been so brilliantly contrived that no needle, however fine, could have been pushed between the
intersected strands. The challenge they presented was too appealing to ignore. Again he glanced up at the old man.
Brendan had apparently tired of his labors. As Karney looked on he threw the old man against the tunnel wall and let
the bo dy sink to the ground. O nce there, he let it lie. An unmistakab le sewer stench rose fro m it.
"That was good," Brendan pronounced like a man who had stepped from an invigorating shower. The exercise had
raised a sheen of sweat on his rudd y features; he was smiling from ear to ear. "Give me some of that vodka, Catso."
"All gone," Ca tso slurred, upending the bottle. "W asn't more than a throatful in it."
"Yo u're a lying shit," Brendan told him, still grinning.
"What if I am?" Catso replied, and tossed the empty bottle away. It smashed. "Help me up," he requested of
Brendan. T he latter, his great good humor intact, helped Catso to his feet. Red had already started to walk out of the
tunnel; the others followed.
"Hey Karney," Catso said over his shoulder, "you coming?"
"Sure."
"You want to kiss the dog better?" Brendan suggested. Catso was almost sick with laughter at the remark. Karney
made no answer. He stood up, his eyes glued to the inert figure slumped on the tunnel floor, watching for a flicker of
consciousness. There was none that he could see. He glanced after the others. All three had their backs to him as
they made their way down the track. Swiftly, Karney pocketed the knots. The theft took moments only. Once the
cord was safely out of sight he felt a surge of triumph which was out of all proportion to the goods he'd gained. He
was already anticipating the hours of amusement the knots would furnish. Time when he could forget himself, and
his emp tiness; forget the sterile summ er and the love less winter ahead; forget too the old man lying in his own waste
yards from where he stood.
"Karney!" Catso called.
Karney turned his back on Pope and began to walk away from the body and the attendant litter of belongings. A few
paces from the edge of the tunnel the old man behind him began to mutter in his delirium. The words were
incomprehensible. But by some acoustic trick, the walls of the tunnel multiplied the sound. Pope's voice was thrown
back and forth and b ack again, filling the tunnel with whispers.
It wasn't until much later that night, when he was sitting alone in his bedroom with his mother weeping in her sleep
next door, that Karney had the opportunity to study the knots at leisure. He had said nothing to Red or the others
about his stealing the cord. The theft was so minor they would have mocked him for mentioning it. And besides, the
knots offered him a personal challenge, one which he would face-and conceivably fail-in private.
After some debate w ith himself he elected the knot he would first attempt and began to w ork at it. Almost
immediately he lost all sense of time passing; the problem engrossed him utterly. Hours of blissful frustration passed
unnoticed as he analyzed the tangle, looking for some clue as to a hidden system in the knotting. He could find none.
The configurations, if they had some rationale, were beyond him. All he could hope to do was tackle the problem by
trial and error. Dawn was threatening to bring the world to light again when he finally relinquished the cord to snatch
a few hours
of sleep , and in a night's work he had merely managed to loosen a tiny fraction o f the knot.
Over the next four days the problem becam e an idee fixe, a hermetic obsession to which he would return at any
available opportunity, picking at the knot with fingers that were increasingly numb with use. The puzzle enthralled
him as little in his adult life ever had . W orking at the knot he was deaf and blind to the outside wo rld. Sitting in his
lamp-lit room by night, o r in the park by day, he could almost feel himself draw n into its snarled he art, his
consciousness focused so minutely it could go where light could not. But despite his persistence, the unraveling
proved a slow business. Unlike most knots he had encountered, which, once loosened in part, conceded the entire

solution, this structure was so adroitly designed that prising one element loose only served to constrict and tighten
another. T he trick, he beg an to grasp, was to wo rk on all sides o f the knot at an eq ual rate, loosening one pa rt a
fraction then moving around to loosen another to an equal degree, and so on. This systematic rotation, though
tedious, gradu ally showed results.
He saw no thing of R ed, B rendan or Catso in this time. T heir silenc e suggested that they mourned his absence as little
as he mourned theirs. He was surprised, therefore, when Catso turned up looking for him on Friday evening. He had
come with a proposal. He and Brendan had found a house ripe for robbery and wanted Karney as lookout man. He
had fulfilled that role twice in the past. Both had bee n small breaking and entering jobs like this, which on the first
occasion had netted a numb er of salable item s of jewelry, and on the second several hundred pound s in cash. This
time, however, the job was to be done without Red's involvement. He was increasingly taken up with Anelisa, and
she, accord ing to Catso, had made him swear off petty theft and save his talents for something more ambitious.
Karney sensed that Catso-and Brendan too, most likely-was itching to prove his criminal proficiency without Red.
The house they had chosen was an easy target, so Catso claimed, and Karney would be a damn fool to let a chance
of such easy pickings p ass by. He no dded along with Catso's enthusiasm, his mind on other p ickings. W hen Catso
finally finished his spiel K arney agreed to the jo b, not for the money, but be cause saying yes would get him b ack to
the kno t soonest.
MU CH later that evening, at Catso's suggestion, they met to look at the site of the proposed job. The location
certainly suggested an easy take. Karney had often walked over the bridge that carried Hornsey Lane across the
Archway Road, but he had never noticed the steep footpath-part steps, part track-that ran from the side of the bridge
dow n to the road below. Its entrance was narrow and ea sily overlo oked, and its meandering length was lit by only
one lamp , which light was obscure d by trees growing in the gardens that backed on to the pathway. It was these
gardens-their b ack fences easily scaled or wre nched do wn-that o ffered su ch pe rfect access to the houses. A thief,
using the secluded footpath, might come and go with impunity, unseen by travelers on either the road above or that
below. All the setup required was a lookout on the pathway to warn of the occasional pedestrian who might use the
footp ath. T his wou ld be Karney's duty.
The following night was a thief's joy. Cool, but not cold; cloudy, but without rain. They met on Highgate Hill, at the
gates of the Church of the Passionist Fathers, and from there made their way down to the Archway Road.
Approac hing the pathway from the top end would, Brenda n had argued, attract more attention. Police patrols were
more common on Hornsey Lane, in part because the bridge was irresistible to local depressives. For the committed
suicide the venue had distinct advantages, its chief appeal being that if the eighty-foot drop didn't kill you the
juggernauts hurtling south on the Archway Road certainly would.
Bre ndan was o n another high tonight, p leased to be leading the others instead of taking sec ond place to Red. His talk
was an excitable babble, mostly about women. Karney let Catso have pride of place beside Brendan and hung back a
few paces, his hand in his jacket pocket, where the knots were waiting. In the last few hours, fatigued by so many
sleepless nights, the cord had b egun to play tricks on K arney's eyes. On occa sion it had even seemed to move in his
hand , as though it were working itself loose from the inside . Even now , as they ap proached the p athway, he could
seem to feel it shift against his palm.
"Hey man... look at that." Catso was pointing up the pathway; its full length was in darkness. "Someo ne killed the
lamp."
"Keep your voice down," Brendan told him and led the way up the path. It was not in total darkness. A vestige of
illumination was thrown up from the Archway Road. But filtered as it was through a dense mass of shrubbery, the
path was still virtually be nighted . Karney co uld sca rcely see his hand s in front of his face. B ut the da rkness would
presumably dissuade all but the most sure-footed of pedestrians from using the path. When they climbed a little more
than halfway up, Brendan bro ught the tiny party to a halt.
"This is the house," he announced.
"Are you sure?" Catso said.
"I co unted the gard ens. T his is the on e."
The fence that bounded the bottom of the garden was in an advanced state of disrepair. It took only a brief
manhandling from Brendan-the sound masked by the roar of a late-night juggernaut on the tarmac below-to afford
them easy access. Brend an pushed through the thicket of brambles gro wing wild at the end o f the garden and Catso
followed, cursing as he was sc ratched. Brendan silenced him with a second curse, the n turned back to Karney.
"We're going in. We'll whistle twice when we're out of the house. You remember the signals?"
"He's not an imbecile. Are you Karney? He'll be all right. Now are we going or not?" Brendan said no more. The two
figures navigated the brambles and made their way up into the garden proper. Onc e on the lawn, and out of the
shadows of the trees, they were visible as gray shapes against the house. Karney watched them advance to the back

door, heard a noise from the back door as Catso-much the more nimble-fingered of the two-forced the lock. Then the
duo slid into the interior of the house. He was alone.
No t quite alo ne. H e still had his com panions on the co rd. H e checked up and do wn the p athway, his eyes gradually
becoming sharp er in the so dium-tinted glo om. T here w ere no pedestrians. S atisfied, he pulled the kno ts from his
poc kets. H is hands were ghosts in front of him; he could hardly see the knots at all. But, alm ost witho ut his
conscious intention guiding them, his fingers began to take up their investigation afresh, and odd though it seemed,
he made mo re impression on the problem in a few seconds of blind manipulation than he had in many of the hours
preceding. Robbed of his eyes he went purely on instinct, and it worked wonders. Again he had the bewildering
sensation of intentionality in the knot, as if more and more it was an agent in its own undoing. Encouraged by the
tang of victory, his fingers slid over the knot with inspired accuracy, seeming to alight upon precisely the right
threads to manipulate.
He glanced again along the pathway to be certain it was still empty, then looked back toward the house. The door
rema ined o pen. There wa s no sign of either Catso or B rendan, however. He returned his attention to the pro blem in
hand. He almost wanted to laugh at the ease with which the knot was suddenly slipping undone.
His eyes, sparked by his mounting excitement perhaps, had begun to play a startling trick. Flashes of color-rare,
unnamable tints-were igniting in front of him, their origins the heart of the knot. The light caught his fingers as they
worked. By it, his flesh became translucent. He could see his nerve endings, bright with newfound sensibility; the
rods of his finger bones visible to the marrow Then, almost as suddenly as they flickered into being, the colors
would die, leaving his eyes bewitched in darkness until once more they ignited.
His heart began to hammer in his ears. The knot, he sensed, was mere seconds from solution. The interwoven
threads were positively springing apart. His fingers were the cord's playthings now, not the other way about. He
ope ned loop s to feed the othe r two kn ots through. H e pulled, he pushed ; all at the co rd's behest.
And now c olors came again, but this time his fingers were invisible, and instead he could see something glowing in
the last few hitches o f the knot. The form w rithed like a fish in a net, growing bigger with ev ery stitch he cast off.
The hammer in his head doubled in tempo. The air around him had become almost glutinous, as if he were immersed
in mud.
Som eone whistled . He knew the signal sho uld have carried so me sign ificance for him, but he c ouldn't recall wha t.
There were too many distractions: the thickening air, his pounding head, the knot untying itself in his helpless hand
while the figure at its center-sinuous, glittering-raged and swelled.
The whistle came again. This time its urgency shook him from his trance. He looked up. Brendan was already
crossing the garden, with Catso trailing a few yards behind. Karney had a moment only to register their appearance
before the knot initiated the final phase of its resolution. The last weave fell free, and the form at its heart leaped up
toward Karney's face-growing at an exponential rate. He flung himself backward to avoid losing his head and the
thing shot past him. Shocked, he stumbled in the tangle of brambles and fell in a bed of thorns. Above his head the
foliage was shaking as if in a high wind. Leaves and small twigs showered down around him. He stared up into the
branches to try and catch sight of the shape, but it was already out of sight.
"W hy didn't you answer me , you fucking idiot?" Brend an demanded . "W e thought you'd split on us.
Karney had barely registered B rendan's brea thless arrival. He was still searching the canopy o f the trees above his
head. T he reek of co ld mud filled his nostrils.
"You'd better move yourself" Brendan said, climbing through the broken fence and out on to the pathway. Karney
struggled to get to his feet, but the barb s of the bramb les slowed his attemp t, catching in his hair and clothes.
"Shit!" he heard B rendan breathe from the far side of the fence. "P olice! O n the bridge."
Catso had reached the bottom of the garden.
"W hat are you doing d own there? " he asked Karney.
Karney raised his hand. "Help me," he said. Catso grabbed him by the wrist, but even as he did so Brendan hissed:
"Police! Mo ve it!" and Catso relinquished his aid and ducked o ut through the fence to follow Brendan down to the
Archway Road. It took Karney a few dizzied seconds only to realize that the cord, with its two remaining knots, had
gone from his hand. He hadn't dropp ed it, he w as certain of that. Mo re likely it had deliberately d eserted him, and its
only opportunity had been his brief hand-to-hand contact with Catso. He reached out to grasp hold of the rotting
fence and haul himself to his feet. Catso had to be warned of what the cord had done, police or no police. There was
worse than the law ne arby.
Racing down the pathway, Catso was not even aware that the knots had found their surreptitious way into his hand.
He was too preoc cupied with the problem of escape. Brendan had already disappeared on to the Archway Ro ad and
was away. Catso chanced a look over his shoulder to see if the police were in pursuit. There was no sign of them,
howeve r. Even if they began to give chase no w, he reasone d, they wouldn't catch him. T hat left Karney. Catso
slowed his pace, then stopped , looking back up the pathway to see if the idiot showed any sign of following, but he

had not so much as climbed through the fence.
"Damn him," Catso said beneath his breath. Perhaps he should retrace his steps and fetch him?
As he hesitated on the darkened pathway he became aware that what he had taken to be a gusty wind in the
overhanging trees had abruptly died away. The sudden silence mystified him. He drew his gaze from the path to look
up into the canopy of branches and his appalled eyes focused on the shape that was crawling down toward him,
bringing with it the reek of mud and dissolution, Slowly, as in a dream, he raised his hands to keep the creature from
touching him, but it reached down with wet, icy limbs and snatched him up.
Karney, in the act of climbing through the fence, caught sight of Catso being hauled off his feet and into the cover of
the trees, saw his legs pedaling the air while stolen merchandise fell from his pockets, and skipped do wn the
pathway toward the Archway Road.
Then Catso shrieked, and his dangling legs began an even more frenzied motion. At the top of the pathway, Karney
heard somebo dy calling. One policeman to another, he surmised. The next moment he heard the sound of running
feet. He glanced up to Hornsey Lane-the officers had yet to reach the top of the pathway-and then looked back down
in Catso's direction in time to catch sight of his body dropp ing from the tree. It fell to the ground limply, but the next
moment scram-bled to its feet. Briefly Catso looked back up the pathway toward Karney. The look on his face, even
in the sodium gloom, was a lunatic's look. T hen he bega n to run. Karney, satisfied that Catso had a head start,
slipped back through the fence as the two policemen appeared at the head of the pathway and began in pursuit of
Catso. All this-the knot, the thieves, pursuit, shriek and all-had occupied a mere handful of seconds, during which
Karney had not drawn breath. Now he lay on a barbed pillow of brambles and gasped like a landed fish, while at the
other side of the fence the po lice hurtled do wn the fo otpath yelling after their susp ect.
Catso scarcely heard their commands. It wasn't the police that he was running from, it was the muddied thing that
had lifted him up to meet its slitted and chancred face. Now, as he reached the Archway Road, he felt tremors
beginning in his limbs. If his legs gave out he was certain it wo uld co me for him ag ain and lay its mouth on his a s it
alread y had. O nly this time he would no t have the strength to scre am; the life would be suc ked from his lungs. H is
only hope lay in putting the road between him and his tormentor. The beast's breath loud in his ears, he scaled the
crash barrier, leaped down to the road, and began across the southbound freeway at a run. Halfway across he realized
his error. The horror in his head had blinded him to all other risks. A blue Volvo-its driver's mouth a perfect 0-bore
down on him. He was caught in its headlights like an animal, entranced. Two instants later he was struck a glancing
blow which threw him across the divide and into the path of a tractor trailer. The seco nd driver had no chanc e to
swerve. T he impac t split Catso open and tossed him beneath the wheels.
Up in the garden, Karney heard the panic of the brakes and the policeman at the bottom of the pathway say: "Jesus
Christ Almighty." He waited a few seconds, then peered out from his hiding place. The footpath was now deserted,
top to bottom. The trees were quite still. From the road below rose the sound of a siren, and that of the officers
shouting for oncoming cars to halt. Closer by, somebod y was sobbing. He listened intently for a few mo ments,
trying to work out the source of the sobs, before realizing that they were his own. Tears or no, the clamor from
below demand ed his attention. Something terrible had happened, and he had to see what. But he was afraid to run
the gauntlet of the trees, knowing what lay in wait there, so he stood, staring up into the branches, trying to locate the
beast. There was neither sound nor movement, however. The trees were dead still. Stifling his fears, he climbed from
his hiding place and began to walk down the pathway, his eyes glued to the foliage for the slightest sign of the
beast's presence. He could hear the buzz of a gathering crowd. The thought of a press of people comforted him.
From now on he would need a place to hide, wouldn't he? Men who'd seen miracles did.
He had reached the spot where C atso ha d been dragged up into the trees; a litter of lea ves and stolen pro perty
marked it. Karney's feet wanted to be swift, to pick him up and whisk him a way from the place, but some perverse
instinct slow ed his p ace. W as it that he wanted to temp t the knot's child into showing its face? Better, perhaps, to
confront it now-in all its foulne ss-than to Jive in fear from this moment on, em broidering its countenanc e and its
capacities. B ut the be ast kep t itself hidden. If indee d it was still up there in the tree, it twitched not a nail.
Something moved beneath his foot. Karney looked down, and there, almost lost among the leaves, was the cord.
Catso had been deem ed unworthy to carry it apparently. Now-with some clue to its power revealed-it made no effort
to pass for natural. It squirmed on the gravel like a serpe nt in heat, re aring its knotted head to attract Karney's
attention. He wanted to ignore its cavorting but he couldn't. He knew that if he didn't pick up the knots somebody
else would, given time; a victim, like himself, of an urge to solve enigmas. Where could such Innocence lead, except
to ano ther escape perhaps m ore terrible tha n the first? No , it was best that he took the knots. A t least he was alive to
their po tential, and so, in pa rt, armo red against it. He ben t down, and as he did so the string fairly leap ed into his
hand s, wrapping itself around his fingers so tightly he almost cried out.
"Bastard," he said.
The string coiled itself around his hand, weaving its length between his fingers in an ecstasy of welcome. He raised

his hand to watch its performance better. His concern for the events on the Archway Road had sudd enly, almost
miraculously, evaporated. W hat did such p etty concerns matter? It was only life and death. Better to make his
getaway now, while he could.
Above his head a branch shook. H e unglued his eyes from the knots and squinted up into the tree. With the cord
restored to him his trepidation, like his fears, had evaporated.
"Show yo urself," he said. " I'm not like Catso ; I'm not afraid. I want to know what you are ."
From its camouflage of leaves the waiting beast leaned down toward K arney and exhaled a single, chilly breath. It
smelled of the river at low tide, of vegetation gone to rot. Karney was about to ask it what it was again when he
realized that the exhalation was the beast's reply. All it could speak of its condition was contained in that bitter and
rancid breath. As replies went, it was not lacking in eloquence. Distressed by the images it awoke, Karney backed
away from the spot. Wounded , sluggish forms moved behind his eyes, engulfed in a sludge of filth.
A few feet from the tree the spell of the breath broke, and K arney d rank the polluted air from the ro ad as though it
were clean as the world's morning. He turned his back on the agonies he had sensed, thrust his string-woven hand
into his pocket, and began up the pathway. Behind him, the trees were quite still again.
Several dozen spectators had gathered on the bridge to watch the proceedings below. Their presence had in turn
piqued the curiosity of drivers making their way along Hornsey Lane, some of whom had parked their vehicles and
gotten out to join the throng. The scene beneath the bridge seemed too remote to wake any feelings in Karney. He
stood amo ng the chattering crowd and gazed do wn qu ite dispassionately He reco gnized Catso 's corpse from his
clothes; little else remained of his sometime companion.
In a while, he knew, he wo uld have to m ou rn. But at present he could feel nothing. After all, Catso was dead, wasn't
he? H is pain and co nfusion were at an en d. Karn ey sensed he w ould be wiser to save his tears for those whose
agonies were only just beginning.
AN D aga in, the knots.
At home that night he tried to put them away, but, after the events of the evening they had taken on a fresh glamour.
The knots bound beasts. H ow, an d why, he cou ldn't know ; nor, curiously, did he m uch ca re at the m ome nt. All his
life he had accepted that the world was rich with mysteries a mind of his limited grasp had no hope of understanding.
That was the only genuine lesson his schooldays had taught: that he was ignora nt. This new imp onderable was just
another to tag onto a long list.
Only one ra tionale really occurred to him , and tha t was that so mehow P ope had arranged his stealing of the knots in
the full kno wledge that the loosened beast would revenge itself on the old man's tormentors; and it wasn't to be until
Catso 's cremation, six days later, that Karney was to get so me confirmation o f that theory. In the interim he kept his
fears to him-self, reasoning that the less he said about the night's events the less harm they could do him. Talk lent
the fantastic cred ibility. It gave w eight to p heno mena which he hoped , if left to themse lves, wo uld become too frail
to survive.
W hen the following day the police came to the house on a routine questioning of Catso's friends, he claimed he
knew nothing of the circ umstances surroun ding the death. Brendan had done the sam e, and as there had se emingly
been no witnesses to offer contrary testimony, K arney was not questioned again. Instead he was left to his thoughts;
and the kno ts.
Once, he saw Brenda n. He had expected recriminations. Brendan's belief was that Catso had been running from the
po lice when he was killed, and it had been Karney's lack of concentration that had failed to alert them to the Law's
proximity. But Brendan made no accusations. He had taken the burden of guilt onto himself with a willingness that
almo st sma cked of appe tite; he spok e only of his o wn failure, not of Karney's. T he appa rent arbitrariness of Catso's
demise had uncovered an unexp ected tenderness in Brendan, and Karney ached to tell him the whole incredible story
from beginning to end. But this was not the time, he sensed. He let Brendan spill his hurt out, and kept his own
mou th shut.
AN D still the knots.
Sometimes he would wake in the middle of the night and feel the cord moving beneath his pillow. Its presence was
comforting, its eagerness was not, waking,. as it did, a similar eagerness in him. He wanted to touch the remaining
knots and examine the puzzles they offered. But he knew that to do so was tempting capitulation: to his own
fascinatio n, to their hunger for release. W hen such temptation arose, he forced him self to rem emb er the p athway,
and the beast in the trees; to awake again the harrowing thoughts that had come with the beast's breath. Then, by
degrees, remem bered distre ss would cancel present curiosity, and he w ould leave the cord whe re it lay. Out of sight,
though seldom out of mind.
Dang erous as he kn ew the knots to b e, he couldn't bring himself to burn them. As long as he possessed that mod est

length of cord he was unique. To relinquish it would be to return to his hitherto nondescript condition. He was not
willing to d o that, even though he suspected that his daily and intim ate asso ciation with the co rd was systematically
weakening his ability to resist its seduction.
Of the thing in the tree he saw nothing. He even began to wonder if he hadn't imagined the whole confrontation.
Indeed, given time, his powers to rationalize the truth into nonexistence might have won the day completely. But
events subsequent to the cremation of Catso put an end to such a convenient option.
Karney had gone to the service alone-and, despite the presence of Brendan, Red and Anelisa-he had left alone. He
had little wish to speak with any of the mourners. Whatever word s he might once have had to frame the events were
becoming more difficult to reinvent as time passed. He hurried away from the crematorium b efore anyone cou ld
approach him to talk, his head bowed against the dusty wind which had brought periods of cloud and bright sunshine
in swift succession throughout the day. As he walked, he dug in his pocket for a pack of cigarettes. The cord, waiting
there as ever, welco med his fingers in its usual ingratiating manner. He disentangled it and took ou t the cigarettes,
but the wind was too snappy for matches to stay alight, and his hands seemed unable to perform the simple task of
masking the flame. He wandered on a little way until he found an alley and stepped into it to light up. Pope was
there, waiting for him.
"Did you send flowers?" the derelict asked.
Karney's instinct was to turn and run. But the sunlit road was no more than yards away; he was in no danger here.
And an exchange with the old man might prove informative.
"No flowers?" Pope said.
"No flowers," Karney returned. "What are you doing here?"
"Same as you," Pope replied. "Came to see the boy burn." He grinned; the expression on that wretched, grimy face
was repulsive to a fault. Pope was still the bag of bones that he'd been in the tunnel two weeks previously, but now
an air of threat hung about him. Karney was grateful to have the sun at his back.
"And you. To see you," Pope said;
Karney chose to make no reply. He struck a match and lit his cigarette.
"Y ou've go t some thing that b elongs to me," Pope said. K arney volunteered no guilt. "I want my kno ts back , boy,
before you do so me real dam age."
"1 don't know what you're talking about," Karney replied. His gaze concentrated, unwillingly, on Pope's face, drawn
into its intricacies. The alleyway, with its piled refuse, twitched. A cloud had apparently drifted over the sun, for
Karney's vision, but for the figure o f Pop e, darkened sub tly.
"It was stupid, boy, to try and steal from me. Not that I wasn't easy prey. That was my error and it won't happen
again. I get lonely some times, you see. I'm sure you understand. And when I'm lonely I take to d rinking."
Though mere seconds had apparently passed since Karney had lit his cigarette, it had burned down to the filter
without his taking a single pull on it. He dropped it, vaguely aware that time, as well as space, was being pulled out
of true in the tiny passage.
"It wasn't me," he muttered; a child's defense in the face of any and every accusation.
"Yes it was," Pope replied with incontestable authority. "Let's not waste breath with fabrication. You stole from me,
and your colleague has paid the price. Yo u can't und o the harm yo u've done. B ut you can prevent further harm, if
you return to m e what's mine. Now."
Karney's hand had strayed to his po cket, without his q uite realizing it. He wanted to get out of this trap before it
snapped on him. Giving Pop e what was, after all, rightfully his was surely the easiest way to do it. His fingers
hesitated , howe ver. W hy? B ecause the M ethuselah's eyes were so im placa ble perhap s; beca use returning the knots
into Pope 's hands gave him total control over the weap on that had, in effect, killed C atso? But more , even now, with
sanity at risk, Karney was loath to give back the only fragment of mystery that had ever come his way. Pope, sensing
his disinclination, pressed his cajoling into a higher gear.
"Don't be afraid of me," he said. "I won't do you any harm unless you push me to it. I would much prefer that we
conclude d this matter pe acefully. M ore violence, another de ath even, would only attract attention."
Is this a killer I'm lo oking at? K arney thought; so unke mpt, so ridiculo usly feeble. And yet sound contradicted sight.
The seed of com mand K arney had once heard in Pope's voice was now in full flower.
"Do you want money?" Pope asked. "Is that it? Would your pride be best appeased if I offered you something for
your troubles?" Karney looked incredulously at Pope's shabbiness. "Oh," the old man said, "I may not look like a
moneyed man, but appearances can be deceptive. In fact, that's the rule, not the exception. Take yourself, for
instance . You don't look like a dea d ma n, but take it from me, you are as goo d as d ead, boy. I p romise you d eath if
you co ntinue to defy me."
The speech-so measured, so scrupulous-startled Karney, coming as it did from Pope's lips. Two weeks ago they had
caught Pope in his cups-confused and vulnerable-but now, sober, the man spoke like a potentate; a lunatic king,

perhaps, go ing among the hoi p olloi as a pauper. K ing? N o, mo re like priest. Something in the nature of his authority
(in his name, even) suggested a man whose power had neve r been rooted in mere politics.
"O nce more," he said, "I req uest you to give m e what's mine."
He took a step toward K arney. The alleyway was a narrow tunnel, pressing down on their heads. If there was sky
abo ve them , Pope ha d blind ed it.
"Give me the knots," he said. His voice was softly reassuring. The darkness had closed in completely. All Karney
could see was the man's mouth: his uneven teeth, his gray tongue. "Give them to me, thief, or suffer the
conseq uences.
"Karney?"
Red's voice came from another world. It was just a few paces away-the voice, sunlight, wind-but for a long mome nt
Karney struggled to locate it again.
"Karney?"
He dragged his consciousness out from between Pope's teeth and forced his face around to look at the road. Red was
there, standing in the sun, Anelisa at his side. Her blond hair shone.
"What's going on?"
"Leave us alone," Pope said. "W e've got b usiness, he and I."
"Y ou've go t business with him?" R ed asked of Karney.
Before K arney could reply P ope said: "Tell him. T ell him, K arney, yo u want to speak to m e alone."
Red threw a glance over Karney's shoulder toward the old man. "You want to tell me what's going on?" he said.
Karney's tongue was laboring to find a response, but failing. The sunlight was so far away; every time a cloudshadow p assed across the street he feare d the light would be extinguished permanently. His lips worked silently to
express his fear.
"You all right?" Red asked. "Kamey? Can you hear me?"
Karney no dde d. T he da rkness that held him was beginning to lift.
"Yes..." he said.
Suddenly, Pope threw himself at Karney, his hands scrabbling desperately for his pockets. The impact of the attack
carried K arney, still in a stupor, back against the wall of the alleyway. He fell sideways against a pile of crates.
They, and he, toppled over, and Pope, his grip on Karney too fierce to be dislodged, fell too. All the preceding calmthe gallows humor, the circumsp ect threats-had evap orated. H e was again the idiot derelict, spouting insanities.
Karney felt the man's hands tearing at his clothes and raking his skin in his bid for the knots. The words he was
shouting into Karney's face were no longer comprehensible.
Red stepped into the alley and attempted to drag the old man, by coat or hair or beard, whichever handhold presented
itself, off his victim. It was easier said than done; the assault had all the fury of a fit. But Red's superior strength won
out. Spitting nonsense, Pope was pulled to his feet. Red held on to him as if he were a mad dog.
"G et up he told K arney, " get out of his reach."
Karney staggered to his feet among the tinder of crates. In the scant seconds of his attack Pope had d one
considerable damage. Karney was bleeding in half a dozen places. His clothes had been savaged; his shirt ripped
beyond repair. Te ntatively, he put his hand to his raked face. The scratches were raised like ritual scars.
Red pushed Pope against the wall. The derelict was still apoplectic, eyes wild. A stream of invective-a jumble of
English and gibberish-was flung in Red's face. Without pausing in his tirade Pope made another attempt to attack
Karney, but this time Red's handhold prevented the claws from making contact. Red hauled Pop e out of the alley and
into the road.
"Y our lip's bleeding," Anelisa said, looking at K arney w ith plain d isgust. Karney could taste the b lood , salty and hot.
He put the b ack o f his hand to his mo uth. It cam e away scarlet.
"Good thing we came after you," she said.
"Yeah," he returned, not looking at the woman. He was ashamed of the showing he'd made in the face of the vagrant
and knew she must be laughing at his inability to defend himself. Her family were villains to a man , her father a folk
hero am ong thieves.
Red came back in from the street. Pope had gone.
"W hat was all that about?" he demanded to know, taking a comb from his jacket pocket and rearranging his hair.
"Nothing," Karney replied.
"Don't give me shit," Red said. "He claims you stole something from him. Is that right?"
Karney glanced across at Anelisa. But for her presence he might have been willing to tell Red everything, there and
then. She returned his glance and seemed to read his thoughts. Shrugging, she moved out of earshot, kicking through
the demolished crates as she went.
"He's got it in for us all, Red," Karney said.

"What are you talking about?"
Karney looked down at his bloody hand. Even with Anelisa out of the way, the words to explain what he suspected
were slow in coming.
"Catso he began.
"What about him?"
"H e was running, R ed."
Behind him, Anelisa expelled an irritated sigh. This was taking longer than she had temper for.
"Red," she said , "we'll be late."
"Wait a minute," Red told her sharply and turned his attention back to Karney. "What do you mean: about Catso?"
"T he old man's no t what he seems. He's not a vagrant."
"Oh? W hat is he?" A note of sarcasm had crept back into Red's voice, for Anelisa's benefit, no doubt. The girl had
tired of discretion and had wandered back to join Red. "What is he, Karney?"
Karney shook his head. W hat was the use of trying to explain a part of what had happened ? Either he attempted the
entire story, or nothing at all. Silence was easier.
"It do esn't matter," he said flatly.
Red gave him a puzzled loo k, then, when there was no clarification fo rthcoming, said: "If you've got so mething to
tell me abou t Catso , Karney, I'd like to hear it. Y ou know where I live."
"Sure," said Karney.
"I mean it," R ed said, "about talking."
"T hanks."
"Catso was a good mate, you know? Bit of a piss-artist, but we've all had our moments, eh? He shouldn't have died,
Karney It was wrong.
"Red-"
"She's calling you." Anelisa had wandered o ut into the street.
"She's always ca lling me. I'll see yo u around, K arney."
"Y eah."
Red patted Karney's stinging cheek and followed Anelisa out into the sun. Karney made no move to follow them.
Pope's assault had left him trembling. He intended to wait in the alleyway until he'd regained a gloss of composure,
at least. Seeking reassurance of the knots he put his hand into his jacket pocket. It was empty. He checked his other
pockets. They too were empty, and yet he was certain that the old man's grasp had failed to get near the cord.
Perhaps they had slipped out of hiding during the struggle. Karney began to scour the alley, and when the first search
failed, followed with a second and a third. But by that time he knew the operation was lost. Pope had succeeded after
all. By stealth or chance, he had regained the knots.
With startling clarity, Karney remembered standing on Suicides' Leap, looking down on to the Archway Road,
Catso's body sprawled below at the center of a network of lights and vehicles. He had felt so removed from the
tragedy, viewing it with all the involvement of a passing bird. Now-suddenly-he was shot from the sky. He was on
the ground, and wounded, waiting hopelessly for the terrors to come. He tasted blood from his split lip and
wondered, wishing the thought would vanish even as it formed, if Catso had died immediately or if he too had tasted
bloo d as he 'd lain there on the tarmac looking up at the pe ople on the bridge who had yet to learn how c lose death
was.
He returned home via the most populated route he could plan. Though this exposed his disreputable state to the
stares of matrons and policemen alike he preferred their disapproval to chancing the empty streets away from the
major thorough fares. Once home, he bathed his scratches and put on a fresh set of clothes, then sat in front of the
televisio n for a while to allow his limbs to sto p shaking. It was late afternoo n and the program s were all children's
fare; a tone of q ueasy o ptimism infected every channel. He watched the b analities with his eyes b ut not with his
mind, using the respite to try and find the words to describe all that had happ ened to him. T he imp erative was no w to
warn R ed an d B rendan. W ith Pope in contro l of the knots it could only be a m atter of time befo re som e bea st worse, perhaps, than the thing in the trees - came looking for them all. Then it would be too late for explanations. He
knew the other two would be contemptuous, but he would sweat to convince them, however ridiculous he ended up
looking in the process. Perhaps his tears and his panic would move them the way his impoverished vocabulary never
could. About five after five, before his mother returned home from work he slipped out of the house and went to find
Brendan.
ANELISA took the piece of string she'd found in the alleyway out of her pocket and examined it. Why she had
bothered to pick it up at all she wasn't certain, but somehow it had found its way into her hand. She played with one
of the knots risking her long nails in doing so. She had half a dozen better things, to be doing with her early evening.

Red had gone to buy drink and cigarettes and she had promised herself a leisurely, scented bath before he returned.
But the knot wouldn't take that long to untie, she was certain of that. Indeed, it seemed almost eager to be undone;
she had the stra ngest sensation of mo vement in it. And more intriguing yet, there were co lors in the knot-she cou ld
see glints of crimson and violet. W ithin a few minutes she had forgotten the bath entirely; it could wait. Instead, she
concentrated on the co nundrum at her fingertips. After only a few minutes she b egan to see the light.
KAR NEY told Brendan the story as best he could. Once he had taken the plunge and begun it from the beginning he
discovered it had its own mome ntum, which carried him through to the present tense with relatively little hesitation.
He finished, sa ying: "I know it sound s wild, but it's all true."
Brendan didn't believe a word; that much was apparent in his blank stare. But there was more than disbelief on the
scarred face. Karney couldn't work out what it was until Brendan took ho ld of his shirt. Only then did he see the
dep th of B rendan's fury.
"Y ou don't think it's bad enough that C atso's dead," he seethed, " you have to come here telling me this shit."
"It's the truth."
"And where are these fucking knots now?"
"I told you, the o ld man's got them . He to ok them this afternoon. He 's going to kill us, Bren. I know it."
Brendan let Karney go. "Tell you what I'm going to do," he said magnanimously. "I'm going to forget you told me
any of this."
"Y ou don't understand -"
"I said: I'm going to forget you uttered one word. All right? Now you just get the fuck out of here and take your
funny stories with you.
Karney didn't move.
"You hear me?" Brendan shouted. Karney caught sight of a telltale fullness at the edge of Brendan's eyes. The anger
was camouflage-barely adequate-for a grief he had no mechanism to prevent. In Brendan's present mood neither fear
nor argument would convince him of the truth. Karney stood up
"I'm sorry," he said. "I'll go."
Brendan shook his head, face down. He did not raise it again, but left Karney to make his own way out. There was
only Red now; he was the final court of appeal. The story, now told, could be told again, couldn't it? Repetition
would b e easy. Already turning the words ov er in his head, he left Brendan to his tears.
ANE LISA heard Red come in through the front door; heard him call out a word; heard him call it again. The word
was familiar, but it took her several seconds of fevered thought to recognize it as her own name.
"Anelisa!" he called again. "Where are you?"
Nowhere, she thought. I'm the invisible woman. Don't come looking for me. Please God, just leave me alone. She
put her hand to her mouth to stop her teeth from chattering. She had to stay absolutely still, absolutely silent. If she
stirred so much as a hair's breadth it would hear her and come for her. The only safety lay in tying herself into a tiny
ball and sealing her mouth with her palm.
Red began to climb the stairs. Doubtless Anelisa was in the bath, singing to herself. The woman loved water as she
loved little else. It was not uncommon for her to spend hours immersed, her breasts breaking the surface like two
dream islands. Four steps from the landing he heard a noise in the hallway below-a cough, or something like it. Was
she playing some game with him? H e turned about and descended, mo ving more stealthily now. Almost at the
bottom of the stairs his gaze fell on a piece of cord which had been dropped on one of the steps. He picked it up and
briefly puzzled over the sing le knot in its length before the noise cam e again. This time he did no t pretend to him self
that it was Anelisa. He held his breath, waiting for another prompt from along the hallway. When none cam e he dug
into the side of his boot and pulled out his switchblade, a weapon he had carried on his person since the tender age of
eleven. An adolescent's weapon, Anelisa's father had advised him. But now, advancing along the hallway to the
living room, he thanked the patron saint of blades he had not taken the old felon's advice.
The room was gloomy. Evening was on the house, shuttering up the windows. Red stood for a long while in the
doo rway an xiously watching the interio r for movement. The n the no ise again; not a single sound this time, but a
whole series o f them. T he source, he now realized to his relief, was not hum an. It was a do g most likely, wounded in
a fight. Nor was the sound coming from the room in front of him, but from the kitchen beyond. His courage
bolstered by the fact that the intruder was merely an animal, he reached for the light switch and flipped it on.
The helter-skelter of events he initiated in so doing occurred in a breathless sequence that occupied no more than a
dozen seconds, yet he lived each one in the minutest detail. In the first second, as the light came on, he saw
something move across the kitchen floor; in the next, he was walking toward it, knife still in hand. The third brought
the animal-alerted to his planned aggression-out of hiding. It ran to meet him, a blur of glistening flesh. Its sudden

proximity was overpowering: its size, the heat from its steaming body, its vast mouth expelling a breath like rot. Red
took the fourth and fifth seconds to avoid its first lunge, but on the sixth it found him. Its raw arms sn atched at his
body. He slashed out with his knife and opened a wound in it, but it closed in and took him in a lethal embrace.
More throu gh accide nt than intention, the switch-blad e plunged into its flesh, and liq uid heat sp lashed up into Red 's
face. He sca rcely noticed. H is last three seconds were upon him . The we apon, slick with blood, slid from his grasp
and was left embedded in the beast. Unarmed, he attempted to squirm from its clasp, but before he could slide out of
harm's way the great unfinished head was pressing toward him-the maw a tunnel-and sucked one solid breath from
his lungs. It was the only brea th Red possessed . His brain, de prived of o xygen, threw a fireworks disp lay in
celebration of his imminent departure: roman candles, star shells, catherine wheels. The pyrotechnics were all too
brief,. too soon, the darkness.
Upstairs, Anelisa listened to the chaos of sound and tried to piece it together, but she could not. Whatever had
happened, ho wever, it had ended in silenc e. Red did not co me looking for her. But the n neither did the bea st.
Perhaps, she thought, they had killed each other. The simplicity of this solution pleased her. She waited in her room
until hunger and b ored om got the better of trep idation and then went do wnsta irs. R ed was lying where the cord's
second offspring had dropped him, his eyes wide open to watch the fireworks. The beast itself squatted in the far
corner of the room, a ruin of a thing, Seeing it, she backed away from Red's body toward the door. It made no
attemp t to move toward her, but simply followed her with d eep-set eyes, its breathing coarse, its few movements
sluggish.
She would go to find her father, she decided, and fled the house, leaving the front door ajar.
It was still ajar half an hour later when Karney arrived. Though he had fully intended to go straight to Red's home
after leaving Brendan, his courage had faltered. Instead, he had wandered-without conscious planning-to the bridge
over the Archwa y Road. H e had stood there for a long space watching the traffic belo w and drinking from the half
bottle o f vodka he had bought on H olloway Ro ad. T he purchase had cleared him of cash, but the sp irits, on his
emp ty stomach, had been potent and clarified his thinking. They would all die, he had concluded. M aybe the fault
was his for stealing the cord in the first p lace. M ore p robably P ope would have p unished them anyway for their
crimes against his person. The best they might now hope-he might hope-was a smidgen of comprehension. That
would almost be enough, his spirit-slurred brain decided: just to die a little less ignorant of mysteries than he'd been
born. Red would understand.
Now he stood on the step and called the man's name. There came no answering shout. The vodka in his system made
him impudent and, calling for Red again, he stepped into the house. The hallway was in darkness, but a light burned
in one of the far ro oms and he made his w ay towa rd it. The atmosphere in the house was sultry, like the interior o f a
greenhouse. It became warmer still in the living room, where Red wa s losing body heat to the air.
Karney stared down at him long enough to register that he was holding the cord in his left hand and that only one
knot remained in it. Perhaps Pope had been here and for some reason left the knots behind. However it had come
about, their presence in Red's hand offered a chance for life. This time, he swore as he approached the bod y, he
would destroy the cord once and for all. Burn it and scatter the ashes to the four winds. He stooped to remove it from
Red 's grip. It sensed his nearness and slipped, blo od-sleek, out of the dead man's hand and up into K arney's, whe re it
wove itself between his digits, leaving a trail behind it. Sickened, Karney stared at the final knot. The process which
had taken him so much painstaking effort to initiate now had its own momentum. W ith the second knot untied the
third wa s virtually loo sening itself. It still required a human age nt app arently-wh y else did it leap so readily into his
hand?-but it was already close to solving its own riddle. It was imperative he destroy it quickly, before it succeeded.
Only then did he become aware that he was not alone. Besides the dead, there was a living presence close by. He
looked up from the cavorting knot as somebody spoke to him. The words made no sense. They were scarcely words
at all, more a sequence of wounded sounds. Karney remembered the breath of the thing on the footpath and the
ambiguity of the feelings it had engendered in him. Now the same ambiguity moved him again. With the rising fear
came a sense that the voice of the beast spoke loss, whatever its language. A rumor of pity moved in him.
"Show yo urself," he said, not kno wing wh ether it wo uld U nderstand or no t.
A few tremulous heartbeats passed, and then it emerged from the far door. The light in the living room was good,
and Karney's eyesight sharp , but the b east's anato my de fied his co mprehension. T here was som ething sim ian in its
flayed, palpitating form, but sketchy, as if it had been born prematurely. Its mouth opened to speak another sound.
Its eyes, buried beneath the bleeding slab of a brow, were unreadable. It began to shamble out of its hiding place
across the room to ward him, each droop ing step it took tem pting his cowardice. W hen it reached Red 's corpse it
stopped, raised one of its ragged limbs, and indicated a place in the crook of its neck. Karney saw the knife-Red's, he
guessed. Was it attempting to justify the killing, he wondered?
"W hat are you?" he asked it. The same question.
It shook its heavy head back and forth. A long, low moan issued from its mouth. Then, suddenly, it raised its arm

and pointed directly at Karney. In so doing it let light fall fully on its face, and Karney could make out the eyes
beneath the louring brow: twin gems trap ped in the wo unde d ball of its skull. Their brilliance, and their lucidity,
turned Karney's stomach over. And still it pointed at him.
"W hat do you want?" he asked it. "T ell me what you want.
It droppe d its peeled lim b and mad e to step across the bo dy toward K arney, b ut it had no cha nce to make its
intentions clear. A shout from the front door froze it in its lolling tracks.
"Anybody in?" the inquirer wanted to know
Its face registered panic-the too-human eyes rolled in their raw sockets-and it turned away, retreating toward the
kitchen. The visitor, whoever he was, called again; his voice was closer. Kamey stared d own at the co rpse, and at his
bloody hand, juggling his options, then started across the room and through the door into the kitchen. The beast had
already gone. The back door stood wide open. Behind him, Karney heard the visitor utter some half-formed prayer at
seeing Red 's remains. H e hesitated in the sh ado ws. W as this covert escape wise? Did it not do more to incriminate
him than staying and trying to find a way to the truth? T he kno t, still moving in his hand , finally decided him. Its
destruction had to be his p riority. In the living roo m the visitor was dialing the emergency services. Using his
panicked monologue as cover, Karney crept the remaining yards to the back door and fled.
"SOMEBOD Y'S been on the phone for you," his mother called down from the top of the stairs, "he's woken me
twice already. I told him I didn't-"
"I'm sorry, Mom. Who was it?"
"Wouldn't say. I told him not to call back. You tell him, if he calls again, I don't want people ringing up at this time
of night. Some people have to get up for work in the mo rning."
"Y es, mom."
His mother disappeared from the landing, and returned to her solitary bed; the door closed. Karney stood trembling
in the hallway below, his hand clenched around the knot in his pocket. It was still moving, turning itself over and
over against the confines of his palm, seeking more space, however small, in which to loosen itself. But he was
giving it no latitude. He rummaged for the vodka he'd bought earlier in the evening, manipulated the top off the
bottle single-handed, and drank. As he took a seco nd, galling mouthful, the telephone rang. He put do wn the b ottle
and picked up the receiver.
"Hello?"
The caller was in a phone booth. The tone sounded, money was deposited, and a voice said: "Karney?"
"Yes?"
"For Christ's sake, he's going to kill me.
"Who is this?"
"Brendan." The voice was not like Brendan's at all; too shrill, too fearful. "He'll kill me if you don't come.
"Pope? Is it Pope?"
"H e's out of his m ind. Y ou've go t to com e to the wreck ing yard , at the top of the hill. G ive him-"
The line went dead. Karney p ut the receiver d own. In his hand the cord was perform ing acroba tics. He opened his
hand. In the dim light from the landing the remaining knot shimmered. At its heart, as at the heart of the other two
knots, glints of color promise d them selves. H e close d his fist again, picke d up the vodka bottle, and we nt back out.
The wrecking yard had once boasted a large and perpetually irate Doberman pinscher, but the dog had developed a
tumor the previous spring and sa vaged its owner. It had sub sequently been de stroyed and no rep lacem ent bo ught.
The corrugated iron wall was consequently easy to breach. Karney climbed over and dow n onto the cinder and
gravel strewn ground on the other side. A floodlight at the front gate threw illumination onto the collection of
vehicles, both domestic and commercial, which was assembled in the yard. Most were beyond salvation: rusted
trucks and tankers, a bus which had apparently hit a low bridge at speed, a rogue's gallery of cars, lined up or piled
upon each other, every one an accident casualty. Beginning at the gate, Karney began a systematic search of the
yard, trying as best he could to keep his footsteps light, but be could find no sign of Pope or his prisoner at the
northwest end of the yard. K not in hand, he bega n to ad vance down the enclosure, the reassuring light at the gate
dwindling with every step he took. A few paces on he caught sight of flames between two of the vehicles. He stood
still and tried to interpret the intricate play of shadow and firelight. Behind him he heard movement and turned,
anticipating with every heartbeat a cry, a blow. None came. He scoured the yard at his back-the image of the yellow
flame dancing on his retina-but whatever had moved was now still again.
"Brendan?" he whispered, looking back toward the fire.
In a slab of shadow in front of him a figure m oved, and Brendan stum bled ou t and fell to his knees in the cinders a
few feet from where Karney stood. Even in the deceptive light Karney could see that Brendan was the worse for

punishment. His shirt was smeared with stains too dark to be anything but b lood . His face was contorted with
prese nt pain, or the anticipation of it. W hen K arney w alked toward him he shied away like a bea ten anim al.
"It's me. It's Karney."
Bre ndan raised his bruise d hea d. "M ake him stop."
"It'll be all right."
"M ake him stop. P lease."
Brendan's hands wen t up to his neck. A co llar of rope encircled his throat. A leash led o ff from it into the darkness
between two vehicles. There, holding the other end of the leash, stood Po pe. His eyes glimm ered in the shad ows,
although they had no source to glean their light from.
"Y ou were wise to com e," P ope said. "I would have killed him."
"Let him go," Karney said.
Pope shoo k his head. "First the knot." He stepped out of hiding. Somehow Karney had expected him to have
sloughed off his guise as a derelict and show his true face-whatever tha t might be-but he had not. He was d ressed in
the same shabby garb as he had always worn, but his control of the situation was incontestable. He gave a short tug
on the rope and Brendan collapsed , choking, to the ground, hands tugging vainly at the no ose closing about his
throat.
"Sto p it," K arney sa id. "I've got the knot, damn you. Do n't kill him."
"B ring it to me."
Even as Karney took a step toward the old man something cried out in the labyrinth of the yard. Karney recognized
the sound; so did P ope . It was unm istakab ly the voice of the flayed beast that had killed Red , and it wa s close by.
Pope's besmirched face blazed with fresh urgency.
"Quickly!" he said, "or I kill him." He had drawn a gutting knife from his coat. Pulling on the leash, he coaxed
Brendan close.
The com plaint of the beast rose in pitch.
"The knot!" Pope said. "To me!" He stepped toward Brendan, and put the blade to the prisoner's close-cropped head.
"Don't," said Karney, "just take the knot." But before he could draw another breath something moved at the corner of
his eye, and his wrist was snatched in a scalding grip. Pope let out a shout of anger, and Karney turned to see the
scarlet b east at his sid e meeting his ga ze with a haunted stare. Karney wre stled to loose its hold, hut it shook its
ravaged head.
"K ill it!" Pop e yelled. "Kill it!"
The beast glanced across at Pope, and for the first time Karney saw an unequivocal look in its pale eyes: naked
loathing . Then B rendan issued a sha rp cry, and K arney lo oked his wa y in time to see the gutting knife slid e into his
cheek. Pope withdrew the blade, and let Brendan's corpse pitch forward. Before it had struck the ground he was
crossing toward K arney, m urderous intention in every strid e. The be ast, fear in its thro at, released K arney's arm in
time for him to sidestep Pop e's first thrust. Beast and man divided and ran. K amey's heels slithered in the loose
cinde rs and for an instant he felt P ope 's shadow on him, but slid from the path of the second cut with millimeters to
spare.
"Yo u can't get out," he heard Pope boast as he ran. The old man was so confident of his trap he wasn't even giving
chase. "You're on my territory, bo y. There's no w ay out."
Karney ducked into hiding between two vehicles and started to weave his way back toward the gate, but somehow
he'd lost all sense of orientation. One parade of rusted hulks led onto another, so similar as to be indistinguishable.
W herever the maze led him there seemed to be no way out. He could no longer see the lamp at the gate or Pope 's fire
at the far end of the yard. It was all one hunting ground, and he the prey. And everywhere this daedal path led him,
Pope's voice followed close as his heartbeat. "Give up the knot, boy," it said. "Give it up and I won't feed you your
eyes.
Karney wa s terrified; b ut so, he sensed , was Pope . The cord was not an assassina tion too l, as Karney had alwa ys
believed. Whatever its rhyme or reason, the old man did not have mastery of it. In that fact lay what slim chance of
survival remained. The time had com e to untie the final knot-untie it and take the consequences. Could they be any
worse than d eath at Pope's hands?
Karney fou nd an adeq uate refuge alo ngside a burned-out truck, slid do wn into a squa tting position, and opened his
fist. Even in the darkness, he could feel the knot working to decipher itself. He aided it as best he could.
Again, Pope sp oke. "Don't do it, boy," he said, preten ding humanity. "I kno w what you're thinking and believe me it
will be the end o f you."
Karney's hands seemed to have sprouted thumbs, no longer the equal of the problem. His mind was a gallery of
death portraits: Catso on the roa d, Re d on the carpet, B rendan slipp ing from Pope's grip as the knife slid from his
head . He fo rced the images away, marshaling his beleaguered wits as b est he co uld. Pope had curtailed his

monologue. No w the only sound in the yard was the distant hum of traffic; it came from a world Karney doubted he
would see again. He fumbled at the knot like a man at a locked door with a handful of keys, trying one and then the
next and then the next, all the while knowing that the night is pressing on his back. "Quickly, quickly," he urged
himself. But his former dexterity had utterly deserted him.
And then a hiss as the air was sliced, and Pope had found him-his face triumphant as he delivered the killing strike.
Karney rolled from his squatting position, but the blade caught his upper arm, opening a wound that ran from
shoulder to elbow. The pain made him quick, and the second strike struck the cab of the truck, winning sparks not
blood. Before P ope could stab again Karney was dodging away, blood pulsing from his arm. The old man gave
chase, but K arney w as fleeter. He d ucked behind o ne of the coac hes and, as P ope panted after him, slipped into
hiding bene ath the vehicle. P ope ran past as K arney b it back a sob of pain. The wound he had sustained effectively
incap acitated his left hand . Drawing his arm into his body to m inimize the stress o n his slashe d muscle, he tried to
finish the wretched work he had begun on the knot, using his teeth in place of a second hand. Splashes of white light
were appearing in front of him; unconsciousne ss was no t far distant. He b reathed deeply and regularly through his
nostrils as his fevered fingers pulled at the knot. He could no longer see, nor could scarcely feel, the cord in his hand.
He was working blind, as he had on the footpath, and now, as then, his instincts began to work for him. The knot
started to dance at his lips, eager for release. It was mere moments from solution.
In his devotion he failed to see the arm reach for him until he was being hauled out of his sanctuary and was staring
up into Po pe's shining eyes.
"No more games," the old man said, and loosed his hold on Karney to snatch the cord from between his teeth.
Karney attempted to m ove a few torturous inches to avo id Pope 's grasp, but the pa in in his arm cripp led him . He fell
back, letting ou t a cry on impact.
"Out go your eyes," said Pope and the knife descended. The b linding blow never landed, however. A wounde d form
emerged from hiding b ehind the old man a nd sna tched at the tails of his gabardine. Po pe regained his balance in
moments and spun around The knife found his antagonist, and Karney opened his pain-blurred eyes to see the flayed
beast reeling backward, its cheek slashed open to the bone. Po pe followed through to finish the slaughter, but
Karney didn't wait to watch. H e reac hed up for purchase o n the wreck and hauled himself to his feet, the knot still
clenched between his teeth. Behind him Po pe cursed, and Karney knew he had forsaken the kill to follow. Knowing
the pursuit was already lost, he staggered out from between the vehicles into the open yard. In which direction was
the gate? He had no idea. His legs belonged to a comedian, not to him. They were rubber-jointed, useless for
everything but pratfalls. T wo steps forw ard and his knees gave o ut. The smell of gasoline-soaked cinders cam e up to
meet him.
Despairing, he put his good hand up to his mouth. His fingers found a loop of cord. He pulled, hard, and
miraculously the final hitch of the knot cam e free. He sp at the cord from his mouth as a surging he at roasted his lips.
It fell to the ground, its final seal broken, and from its core the last of its prisoners materialized. It appeared on the
cinders like a sickly infant, its limbs vestigial, its bald head vastly too big for its withered body, the flesh of which
was pale to the point of translucence. It flapped its palsied arms in a vain attempt to right itself as Pope stepped
toward it, eager to slit its defenseless throat. What-ever Karney had hoped from the third knot it had n't been this
scrag of life-it revolted him.
And then it spoke. Its voice was no mewling infant's but that of a grown man, albeit spoken from a babe's mouth.
"T o me !" it called . "Quickly."
As Pope reached down to murder the child the air of the yard filled with the stench of mud, and the shadows
disgorged a spiny, low' bellied thing, which slid across the ground toward him. Pope stepped back as the creature-as
unfinished in its reptilian way as its simian brother-closed on the strange infant. Karney fully expected it to devour
the morsel, but the pallid child raised its arms in welcom e as the beast from the first knot curled about it. As it did so
the second beast showed its ghastly face, moaning its pleasure. It laid its hands on the child and drew the wasted
body up into its capacious arms, completing an unholy family of reptile, ape and child.
The union was not over yet, however. Even as the three creatures assembled their bodies began to fray, unraveling
into ribbons of pastel matter. And even as their anatom ies began to d issolve the strands were b eginning a fresh
configuration, filament entwining with filament. They were tying another knot, random and yet inevitable; more
elaborate by far than any Karney had set fingers on. A new and perhaps insoluble puzzle was appearing from the
piece s of the old, but, where they bad been inchoate, this one would be finished and w hole. W hat though; what?
As the skein of nerves and muscle moved toward its final co ndition, Pope took his m ome nt. He rushed forward, his
face wild in the luster of the union, and thrust his gutting knife into the heart of the knot. But the attack was
mistimed. A limb of ribboned light uncurled from the body and wrapped itself around Pope's wrist. The gabardine
ignited. P ope 's flesh began to bu rn. He screeched, and droppe d the weapon. T he limb release d him, returning itself
into the weave and leaving the old man to stagger back ward , nursing his smoking arm . He lo oked to b e losing his

wits; he shook his head to and fro pitifully. Mom entarily, his eyes found Karney, and a glimmer of guile crept back
into them . He reached for the bo y's injured a rm and hugged him clo se. Karney cried o ut, but P ope , careless of his
captive, dragged Karney away from where the wreathing was nearing its end and into the safety of the labyrinth.
"He won't harm me," Pope was saying to himself, "not with you. Always had a weakness for children." He pushed
Karney ahead of him. " Just get the papers... then away.
Karney sca rcely knew if he was alive o r dead. He had no strength left to fight Pope off. He just went with the old
man, half crawling much of the time, until they reached Pope's destination: a car which was buried behind a heap of
rusted vehicles. It bad no wheels. A bush which had grown through the chassis occupied the driver's seat. Pope
opened the back do or, muttering his satisfaction, and bent into the interior, leaving Karney slumped against the
wing. Unconsciousness was a teasing moment away; Karney longed for it. But Pope had use for him yet. Retrieving
a small boo k from its niche beneath the pa ssenge r seat, Pope whispe red: " No w we m ust go. W e've got b usiness."
Karney groaned as he was pressed forward.
"Close your mo uth," P ope said, em bracing him, "my b rother has ears."
"Brother?" Karney murmured, trying to make sense of what Pope had let slip.
"Sp ellbound," Pope said, "un til you."
"Beasts," Karney muttered, the mingled images of reptiles and apes assailing him.
"H uman," P ope replied . "Ev olution's the knot, boy."
"H uman," K arney sa id and as the syllab les left him his aching eyes caught sight of a gleaming fo rm on the car at his
tormentor's back. Yes, it was human. Still wet from its rebirth, its body running with inherited wounds, but
triumphantly human. Pope saw the recognition in Karney's eyes. He seized hold of him and was about to use the
limp body as a shield when his brother intervened. The rediscovered man reached down from the height of the roof
and caught hold of Pope b y his narrow neck. The old m an shrieked and tore himself loose, darting away across the
cinders, but the other gave howling chase, pursuing him out of Karney's range.
From a long way off, Karney heard Pope's last plea as his brother overtook him, and then the words curved up into a
scream Karney hoped never to hear the equal of again. After that, silence. The sibling did not return; for which,
curiosity notwithstanding, Karney was grateful.
W hen, several minutes later, he mustered sufficient energy to make his way out of the yard-the light burned at the
gate again, a beacon to the perplexed-he found Po pe lying facedown on the gravel. Even if he had possessed the
strength, which he did not, a small fortune could not have persuaded Karney to turn the body over. Enough to see
how the dead m an's hand s had dug into the ground in his torment, and how the brigh t coils of innards, o nce so neatly
loop ed in his abdome n, spilled out from be neath him. The bo ok P ope had b een at such pains to re trieve lay at his
side. Karney stooped, head spinning, to pick it up. It was, he felt, small recompense for the night of terrors he had
endured. The near future would bring questions he could never hope to answer, accusations he had pitifully little'
de fense against. But, by the light of the gateside lam p, he found the stained pages more rewarding than he'd
anticipated. Here, copied out in a meticulous hand, and accompanied by elaborate diagrams, were the theorems of
Pope's forgotten science: the designs of knots for the securing of love and the winning of status; hitches to divide
souls and bind them; for the making of fortunes and children; for the world's ruin.
After a brief perusal, he scaled the gate and clambered over onto the street. It was, at such an hour, deserted. A few
lights burned in the housing project opposite; rooms where the sick waited out the hours until morning. Rather than
ask any more of his exhausted limbs Karney decided to wait where he was until he could flag down a vehicle to take
him where he might tell his sto ry. He had p lenty to occup y him. Although his bo dy was numb and his head woo zy,
he felt more lucid than he ever had . He cam e to the mysteries on the p ages of Po pe's forbidden boo k as to an oasis.
Drinking deeply, he looked forward with rare exhilaration to the pilgrimage ahead.

TH E BO DY POL ITIC
W HEN EVE R HE woke, Charlie George's hands stood Perhaps he would be feeling too hot under the blankets and
have to throw a couple over to Ellen's side of the bed. Perhaps he might even get up, still half-asleep, and pad
through to the kitchen to p ou r himself a tumb ler of iced apple juice. T hen back to b ed , slipping in besid e E llen's
gentle crescent, to let sleep drift over him. They'd wait then, until his eyes had flickered closed and his breathing
become regular as clockwork, and they were certain he was sound asleep. O nly then, when they knew co nsciousness
was gone, would they dare to begin their secret lives again.
FOR months no w Charlie had been waking up with an uncomfortab le ache in his wrists and hand s.

"Go and see a doctor," Ellen would tell him, unsympathetic as ever. 'Why won't you go and see a doctor?"
He hated doc tors, that was why. Who in their right minds would trust someone who m ade a profession out of poking
around in sick people?
"I've probably been working too hard," he told himself.
"Some chance," Ellen muttered.
Surely that was the likeliest explanation. He was a packager by trade; he worked with his hands all day long. They
got tired . It was on ly natural.
"Sto p fretting, C harlie," he told his reflectio n one morning as he slapp ed so me life into his face, "your hands are fit
for anything."
So, night after night, the routine was the same. It goes like this:
The Georges are asleep , side by side in their marital bed. He o n his back, sno ring gen tly; she curled up on his lefthand side. Charlie's head is pro ppe d up on two thick pillows. His jaw is slightly ajar, and bene ath the vein-shot veil
of his lids his eyes scan some dreamed ad venture. Maybe a fire fighter tonight, perhaps a heroic dash into the heart
of some burning brothel. He dreams contentedly; sometimes frowning, sometimes smirking.
There is a movement under the sheet. Slowly, cautiously it seems, Charlie's hands creep up out of the warmth of the
bed and into the open air. Their index fingers weave like nailed heads as they meet on his undulating abdomen. They
clasp each other in greeting, like comrades-in-arms. In his sleep Charlie moans. The brothel has collapsed on him.
The hands flatten themselves instantly, pretending innocence. After a moment, once the even rhythm of his breathing
has resumed, they b egin their deb ate in earnest.
A casual observer, sifting at the bottom of the Georges' bed, might take this exchange as a sign of some mental
disorder in C harlie. T he way his hand s twitch and pluck at each other, stroking each other now, now se eming to
fight. But there's clearly some code o r sequence in their movements, however spasmodic. One m ight almost think
that the slum bering man was deaf and dumb, and talking in his sleep. B ut the hands are speaking no recognizable
sign language; nor are they trying to communicate with anyo ne but each o ther. T his is a clandestine meeting, held
purely between Charlie's hands. There they will stay through the night, perched on his stomach, plotting against the
body politic.
CHARLIE wasn't entirely ignorant of the sedition that was simmering at his wrists. There was a fumbling suspicion
in him that something in his life was not quite right. Increasingly, he had the sense of being cut off from common
experience, bec oming more and more a spectator to the d aily (and nightly) rituals o f living, rather than a p articipa nt.
Take, for example, his love life.
He had never b een a great lover, but neither did he feel he ha d anything to ap ologize for. E llen seem ed satisfied with
his attentions. But these days he felt dislocated from the act. He would watch his hands traveling over Ellen,
touching her with all the intimate skill they knew, and he would view their maneuvers as if from a great distance,
unable to enjoy the sensations of warmth and wetness. Not that his digits were any less agile. Quite the reverse.
Ellen had recently taken to kissing his fingers and telling him how clever the y were. H er pra ise didn't reassure him
one iota. If anything, it made him feel worse to think that his hands were giving such pleasure when he was feeling
nothing.
There were other signs of his instability too. Small, irritating signs. He had become conscious of how his fingers beat
out martial rhythms on the boxes he was sealing up at the factory, and the way his hands had taken to breaking
pencils, snapping them into tiny pieces before he realized quite what he (they) were doing, leaving shards of wood
and graphite scattered across the packing room floor.
Most em barrassingly, he had fo und himself ho lding ha nds with total strangers. T his had happ ened on three separate
occasions. Once at a bus-stop, and twice in the elevator at the factory. It was, he told himself, nothing more than the
primitive urge to hold on to another person in a changing world; that was the best explanation he could muster.
Whatever the reason, it was damned disconcerting, especially when he found himself surreptitiously holding hands
with his own foreman. W orse still, the other man's hand had grasped Charlie's in return, and the men had found
themselves looking down their arms like two do g own ers watching the ir unruly pets cop ulating at the ends of their
leashes.
Increasingly, Charlie had taken to peering at the palms of his hands looking for hair. That was the first sign of
madness, his mother had once warned him. Not the hair, the looking.
Now it becam e a race against time . Deb ating on his b elly at night, his hands knew very well how critical Charlie's
state of mind had become. It could only be a matter of days before his careering imagination alighted on the truth.
So what to do? R isk an early severance, with all the possible consequences, or let Charlie's instability take its own,
unpredictable, course, with the chance of his discovering the plot on his way to madness? T he debates became mo re

heated. Left, as ever, was cautious: "What if we re wrong, it would rap, "and there's no life after the body?"
"T hen we will never kno w," R ight would rep ly.
Left would ponder that problem a moment. Then: "How will we do it, when the time comes?"
It was a vexing question and Left knew it troubled the leader more than any other. "How ?" it would ask again,
pressing the advantage. "How? How?"
"W e'll find a way," Right would reply. "As lon g as it's a clean cut."
"Suppose he resists?"
"A man resists with his hands. His ha nds will be in revolution against him."
"And which of us will it be?"
"He uses me most effectively," Right would reply, "so I must wield the weapon. You will go.
Left wo uld be silent a while then. T hey had never been apart all these yea rs. It was no t a com fortable thought.
"Later, you can co me b ack for me," Right would say.
"I will."
"You must. I am the Messiah. Without me there will be nowhere to go. You must raise an army, then come and fetch
me."
"T o the ends o f the earth, if necessary.
"D on't be sentimental."
Then they'd embrace, like long-lost brothers, swearing fidelity forever. Ah, such hectic nights, full of the
exhilaration o f planne d reb ellion. E ven during the day, when they had sworn to stay apa rt, it was imp ossible
sometimes not to creep together in an id le moment and tap eac h other. To say:
Soo n, soon, to say:
Again tonight: I'll meet you o n his stom ach, to say:
W hat will it be like, when the world is ours?
CH ARLIE knew he was close to a nervous breakdown. H e found himself glancing do wn at his hands on occasio n, to
watch them with their index fingers in the air like the heads of long-necked beasts sensing the horizon. He found
himself staring at the hands of other people in his paranoia, becoming obsessed with the way hands spoke a language
of their own, independent of their user's intentions. The seductive hands of the virgin secretary, the maniacal hands
of a killer he saw on the television protesting his innocence. Hands that betrayed their owners with every gesture,
contradicting anger with ap ology, and lo ve with fury. They seem ed to be everywhe re, these signs of m utiny.
Eventually he knew he had to speak to so meb ody b efore he lost his sa nity.
He chose R alph Fry from Accounting, a sober, uninspiring man, whom Charlie trusted. Ralph was very
understanding.
"Y ou get these things," he sa id. "I got them when Yvo nne left me. Terrible nervo us fits."
"What did you do about it?"
"Saw a headshrinker. N ame of Jeudwine . You shou ld try So me therapy. Y ou'll be a chang ed m an."
Charlie turned the idea over in his mind. "Why not?" he said after a few revolutions. "Is he expensive?"
"Yes, But he's good. Got rid of my twitches for me; no trouble. I mean, till I went to him I thought I was your
average guy with marital problems. Now look at me," Fry made an expansive gesture, "I've got so many suppressed
libidinal urges I don't know where to start." He grinned like a loon. "But I'm happy as a clam. Never been happier.
Give him a try; he'll soon tell you what turns you on.
"T he problem isn't sex," Charlie told F ry.
"T ake it from me ," said Fry with a know ing smirk . "T he problem's always se x."
TH E next day Charlie rang Dr. Jeudwine, without telling Ellen, and the shrink's secretary arranged an initial session.
Charlie's palms sweated so much while he made the telephone call he thought the receiver was going to slide right
out of his hand, but when he'd done it he felt better.
Ralph Fry was right, Dr. Jeudwine was a good man. He didn't laugh at any of the little fears Charlie unburdened.
Quite the contrary, he listened to every word with the greatest concern. It was very reassuring.
During their third session together, the doctor brought one particular memory back to Charlie with spectacular
vividness: his father's hands, crossed on his barrel chest as he lay in his coffin; the ruddy co lor of them, the coa rse
hair that matted their backs. The absolute authority of those wide hands, even in death, had haunted Charlie for
months afterward. And hadn't he imagined, as he'd watched the body being consigned to humus, that it was not yet
still? That the hands were even now beating a tattoo on the casket lid, demanding to be let out? It was a preposterous
thing to think, but bringing it out into the open did Charlie a lot of good. In the bright light of Jeudwine's office the
fantasy looked insipid and ridiculous. It shivered under the doctor's gaze, protesting that the light was too strong, and

then it blew away, too frail to stand up to scrutiny.
The exorcism was far easier than Charlie had anticipated. All it had taken was a little probing and that childhood
nonsense bad been dislodged from his psyche like a morsel of bad meat from between his teeth. It could rot there no
longer. And for his part Jeudwine was clearly delighted w ith the results, explaining when it was all done that this
particular obsession had been new to him, and he was pleased to have dealt with the problem. Hands as symbols of
paternal po wer, he said, were not common . Usually the pe nis predom inated in his patients' dream s, he exp lained, to
which Charlie had replied that hands had alwa ys seemed far more important than private parts. After all, they could
change the world, could n't they?
After Jeudwine, Charlie didn't stop breaking pencils or drumming his fingers. In fact if anything the tempo was
brisker and more insistent tha n ever. But he reasoned that m iddle-aged dogs didn't quickly forget their tricks, and it
would take some time for him to regain his equilibrium.
So the revolution remained underground. It had, however, been a narrow escape. Clearly there was no time left for
prevaricatio n. The reb els had to act.
Unwittingly, it was Ellen who instigated the final uprising. It was after a bout of lovemaking late one Thursday
evening. A hot night, though it was October, the window was ajar and the curtains parted a few inches to let in a
simpering breeze. Husband and wife lay together under a single sheet. Charlie had fallen asleep even before the
sweat on his neck had dried. Beside him Ellen was still awake, her head propped up on a rock-hard pillow, her eyes
wide open. Sleep wouldn't come for a long time tonight, she knew. It would be one of those nights when her body
would itch, and every lump in the bed would worm its way under her, and every doubt she'd ever had would gawk at
her from the d ark. Sh e wanted to emp ty her bladde r (she always did after sex) but she couldn't quite raise the will
po wer to get up and go to the bathroo m. The longer she left it the m ore she'd need to go, of course, and the less she'd
be able to sink into sleep. Damn stupid situation, she thought, then lost track, among her anxieties, of what situation
it was that was so stupid.
At her side C harlie m oved in his slee p. Just his hands, twitch mg away. She looked at his face. He was positively
cherubic in sleep, looking younger than his forty-one years, desp ite the white flecks in his sideburns. Sh e liked him
enough to say she loved him, she supposed, but not enough to forgive him his trespasses. He was lazy, he was
always complaining. Aches, pains. And there were those evenings he'd not come in until late (they'd stopped
recently), when she was sure he was seeing another woman. As she watched, his hands appeared. They emerged
from ben eath the sheet like two arguing children, digits stabbing the air for emphasis.
She frowned, not quite believing what she was seeing. It was like watching the television with the sound turned
down, a dumb show for eight fingers and two thumbs. As she gazed on, amazed, the hands scrambled up the side of
Charlie's carcass and peele d the sheet ba ck from his belly, exposing the ha ir that thickened toward his privates. H is
app endix scar, shinier than the surro unding skin, caught the light. There, on his stom ach, his hands seemed to sit.
The argument between them was especially vehement tonight. Left, always the more conservative of the two, was
arguing for a d elay in the se verance da te, but R ight was b eyond waiting. Th e time had co me, it argued, to test their
strength against the tyrant and to overthrow the body once and for all. As it was, the decision didn't rest with them
any longer.
Ellen raised her head from the pillow, and for the first time they sensed her gaze on them. They'd been too involved
in their argument to notice her. Now, at last, their conspiracy was uncovered.
"Charlie. .." she was hissing into the tyrant's ear, "stop it, Charlie. Stop it."
Right raised index and middle fingers, sniffing her presence.
"Charlie she said again. W hy did he alwa ys sleep so de eply?
"Charlie..." she shook him more violently as Right tapped Left, alerting it to the woman's stare. "Please Charlie,
wake up."
W ithout warning, Right leaped; Left was no more than a moment behind. Ellen yelled Charlie's name once more
before they clamp ed themselves about her throat.
In sleep Charlie was on a slave ship; the settings of his dreams were often B. de Mille exotica. In this epic his hands
had been manacled together, and he was being hauled to the whipping block by his shackles to be punished for some
undisclosed misdemeanor. But now, suddenly, he dreamed he was seizing the captain by his thin throat. There were
howls from the slaves all around him, encouraging the strangulation. The captain-who looked not unlike Dr.
Jeud wine-was begging him to sto p in a voice that was high and frightened. It w as almo st a wo ma n's voice; Ellen's
voice. "Charlie!" he was squeaking, "don't!" But his silly complaints only made Charlie shake the man more
violently than ever, and he was feeling quite the hero as the slaves, miraculously liberated, gathered around him in a
gleeful throng to watch their master's last moments.
The captain, whose face was purple, just managed to murmur "Y ou're killing me before Charlie's thumbs dug one
final time into his neck and dispatched the man. Only then, through the smoke of sleep, did he realize that his victim,

though male, had no Ad am's apple. And no w the ship bega n to rec ede around him , the exhorting voices losing their
vehemence. His eyes flickered open, and he was standing on the bed in his pajama bottoms, Ellen in his hands. Her
face was dark and spotted with thick white spittle. Her tongue stuck out of her mouth. Her eyes were still open, and
for a moment there seemed to be life there, gazing out from under the blinds of her lids. Then the windows were
empty, and she went out of the house altogether.
Pity, and a terrible regre t, overc ame Charlie. He tried to let her body d rop, but his hands refused to unlock her throat.
His thumbs, now totally senseless, were still throttling her, shamelessly guilty. He backed off across the bed and on
to the floor, but she followed him at the length of his outstretched arms like an unwanted dancing partner.
"Please.. ." he imp lored his fingers. " Please!"
Innocent as two school children caught stealing, his hands relinquished their burden and leaped up in mock surprise.
Ellen tumbled to the carpet, a pretty' sack of death. Charlie's knees buckled. Unable to prevent his fall, he collapsed
beside Ellen and let the tears come.
No w there was only action . No need for cam ouflage, for clandestine meetings and end less debate-the truth wa s out,
for better or worse. All they had to do was wait a while. It was only a matter of time before he came within reach of
a kitchen knife or a saw or an axe. Very soon now; very soon.
CH ARLIE lay on the floor b eside Ellen a long time, sob bing. A nd then another long time, thinking. W hat was he to
do first? Call his law yer? T he po lice? D r. Jeud wine? W hoever he was go ing to ca ll, he couldn't do it lying flat on his
face. He tried to get up, though it was all he could do to get his numb hands to support him. His entire body was
tingling as though a mild electric shock was being passed though it. Only his hands had no feeling in them. He
brought them up to his face to clear his tear-clogged eyes, but they folded loosely against his cheek, drained of
power. Using his elbows, he dragged himself to the wall and shimmied up it. Still half-blinded with grief, he lurched
out of the bedroom and down the stairs. (The kitchen, said Right to Left, he's going to the kitchen.) This is somebody
else's nightma re, he tho ught as he flicked on the dining-room light with his chin and ma de for the liquor cab inet. I'm
innocent. Just a nobody. Why should this be happening to me?
The whisky bottle slipped from his palm as he tried to make his hands grab it. It smashed on the dining-room floor,
the brisk scent of spirit tantalizing his palate.
"B roken glass," rapp ed Left.
"N o," R ight replied. "W e need a clean cut at all costs. Just be patient."
Charlie stagge red away from the b roken bottle toward the telepho ne. H e had to ring Jeudwine. T he do ctor would tell
him what to do. He tried to pick up the telephone receiver, but again his hands refused; the digits just bent as he tried
to punch out Jeud wine's num ber. T ears o f frustration were now flowing, wa shing out the grief with ange r. Clum sily,
he caught the receiver between his wrists and lifted it to his ear, wedging it between his head and his shoulder. Then
he punched out Jeudwine's number with his elbow.
Control, he said aloud, keep control. He could hear Jeudwine's number being tapped down the system. In a matter of
seconds sanity would be picking up the phone at the other end, then all would be well. He only had to hold on for a
few moments more.
His ha nds ha d started to o pen and close co nvulsively.
"Control he said, but the hands weren't listening.
Far away-oh, so far-the phone was ringing in Dr. Jeudwine's house.
"Answer it, answer it! O h Go d, answ er it!"
Charlie's arms had begun to shake so violently he could scarcely keep the receiver in place.
"Answer!" he screech ed into the mo uthpiece. "P lease."
Before the voice of reason could speak his R ight hand flew out and snatched at the teak d ining table, which was a
few feet from where Charlie stood. It gripped the edge, almost pulling him off balance.
"What. . . ..... . you. .. doing?" he said, not sure if he was addressing himself or his hand.
He stared in bewilderment at the mutinous limb, which was steadily inching its way along the edge of the table. The
intention was quite clear: it wanted to pull him away from the phone, from Jeudwine and all hope of rescue. He no
longer had control over its behavior. There wasn't even any feeling left in his wrists or forearms. The hand was no
longer his. It was still attached to him-but it was not his.
At the other end of the line the phone was picked up, and Jeudwine's voice, a little irritated at being woken, said:
"Hello?"
"D octor..."
"Who is this?"
"It's Charlie-"

"Who?"
"Charlie G eorge, doctor. Y ou must rememb er me."
The hand was pulling him farther and farther from the phone with every precious second. He could feel the receiver
sliding out from between his shoulder and ear.
"Who did you say?"
"Charles George. For God's sake Jeudwine, you've got to help me.
"Call my office tomo rrow."
"Y ou don't understand . My hands, doc tor... they're out of control."
Charlie's stomach lurched as he felt something crawl across his hip. It was his left hand, and it was making its way
around the front of his body and down toward his groin.
"Don't you dare," he warned it, "you belong to me.
Jeudwine was confused. "Who are you talking to?" he asked
"M y hands! They want to kill me, d octor!" H e yelled to stop the hand's advance. "You mustn't! Stop!"
Ignoring the despot's cries, Left took hold of Charlie's testicles and squeezed them as though it wanted blood. It was
not disapp ointed . Charlie screa med into the p hone as Righ t took advantage o f his distraction and pulled him off
balance. The receiver slipped to the floor, Jeudwine's inquiries eclipsed by the pain at his groin. He hit the floor
heavily, striking his head on the table as he went down.
"Bastard," he said to his hand. "You bastard." Unrepentant, Left scurried up Charlie's body to join Right at the
tabletop, leaving Charlie hanging by his hands from the table he had dined at so often, laughed at so often.
A moment later, having debated tactics, they saw fit to let him drop. He was barely aware of his release. His head
and groin bled. All he wanted to do was curl up awhile and let the pain and nausea subside. But the rebels had other
plans and he was helpless to contest them. He was only marginally aware that now they were digging their fingers
into the thick pile of the carpet and hauling his limp bulk toward the dining room do or. Beyond the door lay the
kitchen, replete with its meat saws and its steak knives. Charlie had a picture of himself as a vast statue, being pulled
toward its final resting plac e by hundreds of sw eating workers. It was no t an easy p assage : the body mo ved with
shudders a nd jerks, the toenails ca tching in the carp et pile, the fat of the chest rubbed raw. B ut the kitchen was only
a yard away now. Charlie felt the step on his face. And now the tiles were beneath him, icy-cold. As they dragged
him the final yards across the kitchen floor his beleaguered consciousness was fitfully returning. In the weak
moonlight he could see the familiar scene: the stove, the humming fridge, the waste-bin, the dishwasher. They
loomed over him. He felt like a worm.
His ha nds ha d reached the stove. They were climb ing up its face and he fo llowed them like an overthrown king to
the block. Now they worked their way inexorably along the work surface, joints white with the effort, his limp body
in pursuit. Though he could neither feel no r see it, his Le ft hand had seized the far ed ge of the cabinet top, beneath
the row of knives that sat in their prescribed places in the rack on the wall. Plain knives, serrated knives, skinning
knives, carving knives-all conveniently placed beside the chopping board, where the gutter ran off into the pinescented sink.
Very distantly he thought he heard p olice sire ns, but it was probab ly his brain buzz ing. He turned his head slightly.
An ache ran from temple to temple, but the dizziness was nothing to the terrible somersaulting in his gut when he
finally registered their intentions.
The blades were all keen, he knew that. Sharp kitchen utensils were an article of faith with Ellen. He began to shake
his head back ward and fo rward ; a last, frantic d enial of the who le nightm are. B ut there w as no one to beg m ercy of.
Just his own hands, damn them, p lotting this final lun acy.
Then, the doorbell rang. It was no illusion. It rang once, and then again and again.
"T here!" he said aloud to his torm entors. "H ear that, you ba stards? Som ebo dy's com e. I knew they wo uld."
He tried to get to his feet, his head turning back on its giddy axis to see what the precocious monsters were doing.
They'd moved fast. His left wrist was already neatly centered on the chopping board.
The do orbell rang again, a long, impatient din.
"H ere!" he' yelled ho arsely. "I'm in here! Break do wn the d oor!"
He glanced in ho rror b etween hand and d oor, doo r and hand, calculating his cha nces. W ith unhurried economy his
right hand reached up for the meat cleaver that hung from the hole in its blade on the end of the rack. Even now he
couldn't quite b elieve that his own hand -his com panion and defender, the limb that signed his name, that stroked his
wife-was preparing to mutilate him. It weighed the cleaver, feeling the balance of the tool, insolently slow.
Behind him, he heard the noise of smashing glass as the police broke the pane in the front door. Even now they
would be reaching through the hole to the lock and opening the doo r. If they were quick (very q uick) they could still
stop the act.
"H ere!" he yelled , "in here!"

The cry was answered with a thin whistle: the sound of the cleaver as it fell-fast and deadly-to meet his waiting
wrist. Left felt its root struck, and an unspeakable exhilaration sped through its five limbs. Charlie's blood baptized
its back in hot spurts.
The head of the tyrant made no sound . It simply fell back, its system shocked into unconsciousness, which was well
for Charlie. He was spared the gurgling of his blood as it ran down the drain hole in the sink. He was spared too the
second and third blow, which finally severed his hand from his arm. Unsupported, his body toppled backward,
colliding with the vegetable rack on its way down. Onions rolled out of their brown bag and bounced in the pool that
was spreading in throbs aro und his emp ty wrist.
Right dropped the cleaver. It clattered into the bloody sink Exhausted, the liberator let itself slide off the chopping
board and fell back onto the tyrant's chest. Its job was done. Left was free, and still living. The revolution had begun.
The libera ted hand scuttled to the edge of the cabinet and raised its index finger to no se the ne w world. M ome ntarily
Right echoed the gesture of victory before slumping in innocence across Charlie's body. For a moment there was no
movement in the kitchen but the Left hand touching freedom with its finger, and the slow passage of blood threads
dow n the front of the cabine t.
Then a blast of cold air through from the dining room alerted Left of its imminent danger. It ran for cover as the thud
of police feet and the babble of contradictory orders disturbed the scene of the triumph. The light in the dining room
was switched o n and flood ed through to meet the bo dy on the kitchen tiles.
Charlie saw the dining-room light at the end of a very long tunnel. He was traveling away from it at a fair lick. It was
just a pinprick alread y. Going... going...
The kitchen light hummed into life.
As the police stepped through the kitchen door, Left ducked behind the waste bin. It didn't know who these intruders
were, but it sensed a threat from them. The way they were bending over the tyrant, the way they were cosseting him,
binding him up, speaking soft words to him-they w ere the enem y, no doubt of that.
From upstairs cam e a voice, young and squeaking with fright.
"Sergeant Yapper?"
The policema n with Charlie stood up, leaving his co mpa nion to finish the tourniquet.
"What is it, Rafferty?"
"Sir! T here's a body up here, in the bedro om. F emale."
"Right." Yapper spoke into his radio. "Get Forensic here. And where's that ambulance? We've got a badly mutilated
man on our hands."
He turned back into the kitchen and wiped a spot of cold sweat from his upper lip. As he did so he thought he saw
something move across the kitchen floor toward the door, something that his weary eyes had interpreted as a large
red spider. It was a trick of the light, no doubt of that. Yapper was no arachnidophile, but he was damn sure the
genus didn't boast a beast its like.
"Sir?" The man at Charlie's side had also seen, or at least sensed, the movement. He looked up at his superior. "W hat
was that?" he wanted to know.
Yapper looked down at him blankly. The cat flap, set low in the kitchen door, snapped as it closed. Whatever it was
had escaped. Yapper glanced at the door, away from the young man's inquiring face. The trouble is, he thought, they
expect you to know everything. The ca t flap rocked o n its hinges.
"Cat," Y app er rep lied, not believing his own explanation for one mise rable mom ent.
TH E night was cold, but Left didn't feel it. It crept around the side of the house, hugging the wall like a rat. The
sensation of freedom was exhilarating. Not to feel the imperative of the tyrant in its nerves; not to suffer the weight
of his ridiculous body, or be obliged to accede to his petty demands. Not to have to fetch and carry for him, to do the
dirt for him; not to be obedient to his trivial will. It was like birth into another world; a more dangerous world,
perhaps, but one so much richer in possibilities. It knew that the responsibility it now carried was awesome. It was
the sole proof of life after the bo dy. So mehow it must com municate that jo yous fact to as many fellow slaves as it
could. Very soo n, the da ys of servitude would be over once and for all.
It stopped at the corner of the house and sniffed the open street. Policemen came and went. Red lights flashed, blue
lights flashed, inquiring faces peered from the houses opposite and clucked at the disturbance. Should the rebellion
begin there, in those lighted homes? N o. They were too wide awake, those people. It was better to find sleeping
souls.
The hand scurried the length of the front garden, hesitating nervo usly at any loud footfall or an ord er that seemed to
be shouted in its direction. Taking cover in the unweeded herbaceo us border, it reached the street without being
seen. Briefly, as it climbed down on to the pavement, it glanced around.
Charlie, the tyrant, was being lifted up into the ambu lance, a clutter o f drug and blood -bearing bo ttles held a bov e his

cot, Pouring their contents into his veins. On his chest, Right lay inert, drugged into unnatural sleep. Left watched
the man's body slide out of sight. The ache of separation from its lifelong companion was almost too much to bear.
But there were other, pressing, priorities. It would come back in a while and free Right the way it had been freed.
And then there would b e such times.
(What will it be like, when the world is ours?)
IN the foyer of the Y MCA on M onm outh S treet the night watchman yawned an d settled into a more comfo rtable
position on his swivel chair. Comfort was an entirely relative matter for Christie. His piles itched whichever buttock
he put his weight on, and they seemed to be more irritable tonight than usual. Sedentary occupation, night
watchman, or at least it was the way Colonel Christie chose to interpret his duties. One perfunctory round of the
bu ild ing abo ut midn ight, ju st to m ake sure all the do ors were loc ked and bo lted, then he settled do wn for a night's
nap, and damn the world to hell and back, he wasn't going to get up again short of an earthquake.
Christie was sixty-two, a racist and proud of it. He had nothing but contempt for the blacks who thronged the
corridors of the YM CA, mostly young men without suitable homes to go to, bad lots that the local authority had
dumped on the doorstep like unwanted babies. Some babies. He thought them louts, every last one of them; forever
pushing, and spitting on the clean floor; foul-mouthed to a syllable. Tonight, as ever, he perched on his piles and,
between dozes, planned how he'd make them suffer for their insults, given half a chance.
The first thing Christie knew of his imminent demise was a cold, damp sensation in his hand. He opened his eyes
and looked down the length of his arm . There wa s-unlikely as it seemed-a severed hand in his hand . More unlikely
still, the two hands were exchanging a grip of greeting, like old friends. He stood up, making an incoherent noise of
disgust
in his throat and trying to dislodge the thing he was unwillingly grasping by shaking his arm like a man with gum on
his fingers. H is mind spun w ith questions. H ad he picked up this object witho ut knowing it? If so, where, and in
God's name whose was it? More distressing yet, how was it possible that a thing so unquestionably dead could be
holding on to his hand as if it intended never to be parted from him?
He reached for the fire alarm; it was all he could think to do in this bizarre situation. But before he could reach the
button his other hand strayed without his orders to the top drawer of his desk and opened it. The interior of the
draw er was a model of organization: there lay his keys, his no tebook, his time chart, and-hidden at the back-his
Kukri knife, given to him by a Gurkha during the war. He always kept it there, just in case the natives got restless.
The K ukri was a superb weapon-in his estimation there was none better. The Gurkhas had a story that went with the
blade-that they could slice a man's neck through so cleanly that the enem y would believe the blow had missed-until
he nodded.
His hand picked up the Kukri by its inscribed handle and briefly-too briefly for the colonel to grasp its intention
before the deed was done-brought the blade down on his wrist, lopping off his other hand with one easy, elegant
stroke. The colonel turned white as blood fountained from the end of his arm. He staggered backward, tripping over
his swivel chair, and hit the wall of his little office hard. A portrait of the queen fell from its hook and smashed
beside him.
The rest was a death-dream: he watched helplessly as the two hands-one his own, the other the beast that had
inspired this ruin-picked up the Kukri like a giant's axe; saw his remaining hand crawl out from between his legs and
prepare for its liberation; saw the knife raised and falling; saw the wrist almost cut through, then worked at and the
flesh teased apart, the bone sawed through. At the very last, as death came for him he caught sight of the three
wound-headed animals capering at his feet, while his stumps ran like taps and the heat from the pool raised a sweat
on his brow, despite the chill in his bowels. Thank you and goodnight, Colonel Christie.
IT was easy, this revolution business, thought Left as the trio scaled the stairs of the YMC A. They were stronger by
the hour. On the first floor were the cells; in each, a p air of prisoners. Th e despots lay, in their inno cence, with their
hand s on their chests o r on their pillows, or flung across their face s in dreams, o r hanging close to the floor. Silently,
the freedom fighters slipped through doo rs that had been left ajar and clambered up the bedclothes, touching fingers
to waiting palms, stroking up hidden resentments, caressing rebellion into life.
BOSW ELL was feeling sick as a dog. He bent over the sink in the toilet at the end of his corridor and tried to throw
up. B ut there w as nothing left in him , just a jitter in the pit of his stomach. His abdo men felt tender with its
exertions; his head bloated. Why did he never learn the lesson of his own weakness? He and wine were bad
companions and always had been. Next time, he promised himself, he wouldn't touch the stuff. His belly flipped
over again. Here comes nothing, he thought as the convulsion swept up his gullet. He put his head to the sink and
gagged; sure enough, nothing, He waited for the nausea to subside and then straightened up, staring at his gray face

in the greasy mirror. Y ou look sick, man, he told himse lf. As he stuck his tongue out at his less symmetrical features,
the howling started in the corridor outside. In his twenty years and two months Boswell had never heard a sound like
it.
Cautiously, he crossed to the toilet door. He thought twice about opening it. Whatever was happening on the other
side of the door it didn't sound like a pa rty he wanted to gate-cra sh. But these were his friends, right? B rothers in
adversity. If there was a fight, or a fire, he had to lend a hand.
He unlocked the do or and op ened it. The sight that met his eyes hit him like a hamm er blo w. The co rridor was badly
lit-a few grubby bulbs burned at irregular intervals, and here and there a shaft of light fell into the passage from one
of the bedro oms-but mo st of its length was in darkness. Boswell thanked Jah for small m ercies. H e had no desire to
see the details of the events in the passage; the genera] impression was distressing enough. The corridor was bedlam:
people were flinging themselves around in pleading panic while at the same time hacking at themselves with any and
every sharp instrument they could lay hands on. Mo st of the men he knew, if not by name at least on nodding
acquaintance. They were sane men, or at least had been. Now, they were in frenzies of self-mutilation, most of them
already maimed beyond hop e of mending. Everywhere Boswell looked, the same horror. Knives taken to wrists and
forearms; blood in the air like rain. Someone-was it Jesus?-had one of his hands between a door and doorframe and
was slamming and slamming the door on his own flesh and bone, screeching for somebody to stop him from doing
it. One of the white boys had found the colonel's knife and wa s amputating his hand with it. It came off as B oswell
watched, falling onto its back, its roo t ra gged , its five legs bicycling the air as it attemp ted to right itself. It wasn't
dead:
it wasn't even dying.
There were a few who hadn't been overtaken by this lunacy. They, poor bastards, were fodder. The wild men had
their murderous hands on them and were cutting them down. One-it was Savarino-was having the breath strangled
out of him by S ome kid B oswell couldn't put a nam e to. T he punk, all apologies, stared at his rebellious hands in
disbe lief.
Somebody appeared from one of the bedrooms, a hand which was not his own clutching his windpipe, and staggered
toward the toilet down the corridor. It was Macnamara, a man so thin and so perpetually doped up he was known as
the smile on a stick. Boswell stood aside as Macnamara stumbled, choking out a plea for help, through the open
door, and collapsed on the toilet floor. He kicked and pulled at the five-fingered assassin at his neck, but before
Boswell had a chance to step in and aid him his kicking slowed, and then, like his protests, stopped altogether.
Boswell stepped away from the corpse and took another look into the corridor. By now the dead or dying blocked
the narrow passageway, two deep in some places, while the same hands that had once belonged to these men scuttled
over the mounds in a furious excitement, helping to finish an amputation where necessary, or simply dancing on the
dead faces. When he looked back into the toilet a second hand had found Macnamara and, armed with a pen knife,
was sawing at his wrist. It had left fingerprints in the blood from corridor to corpse. Boswell rushed to slam the door
before the place swarmed with them. As he did so Savarino's assassin, the apologetic punk, threw himself down the
passage, his lethal hands leading him like those of a sleepwalker.
"Help me!" he screeched.
He slammed the door in the punk's pleading face and locked it. The outraged hands beat a call to arms on the door
while the punk's lips, pressed close to the keyhole, continued to beg:
"Help me . I don't want to do this man, help me." Help you b e fucked, thought Boswell and tried to block out the
appeals while he sorted out his options.
There was som ething on his foot. He looked down, kno wing before his eyes found it what it was. One o f the hands,
Colonel C hristie's left, he knew by the faded tattoo, was alrea dy scurrying up his leg. Like a child with a be e on its
skin Boswell went berserk, squirming as it clambered up toward his torso, but too terrified to try and pull it off. Out
of the corner of his I eye he could see that the other hand, the one that had been using the penknife with such
alacrity on M acnamara , had given up the job and w as now mo ving across the floor to join its co mrad e. Its nails
clicked on the tiles like the feet of a crab. It even had a crab's sidestepping walk; it hadn't yet got the knack of
forward motion.
Bo swell's own hands were still his to com mand. Like the hands of a few of his friends (late friends) outsid e, his
limbs were happy in their niche; easygoing like their owner. He had been blessed with a chance of survival. He had
to be the equal of it.
Steeling himself, he trod on the hand on the floor. He heard the fingers crunch beneath his heel, and the thing
squirmed like a snake, but at least he knew where it was while he dealt with his other assailant. Still keeping the
beast trapped beneath his foot, Boswell leaned forward, snatched the penknife up from where it lay beside
Mac namara's wrist, and pushed the point of the knife into the back of Christie's hand, which was now crawling up
his belly. U nder attack, it seized his flesh, digging its nails into his stomach. H e was lean, and the washboard m uscle

made a difficult handhold. Risking a disembowelment, Boswell thrust the knife deeper. Christie's hand tried to keep
its grip on him, but one final thrust did it. The hand loosened, and Boswell scooped it off his belly. It was crucified
with the penknife, but it still had no intention of d ying and Bo swell kne w it. He held it at arm's length while its
fingers grabbed at the air, then he drove the knife into the plasterboard wall, effectively nailing the beast there, out of
harm's way. Then he turned his attention to the enemy under his foot, bearing his heel down as hard as he could and
hearing another finger crack, and another. Still it writhed relentlessly. He took his foot off the hand and kicked it as
hard and as high as he could against the opposite wall. It slammed into the mirror above the basins, leaving a mark
like a thrown tomato, and fell to the floor.
He didn't wait to see whether it survived. There was another danger now. Mo re fists at the door, more shouts, more
apologies. They wanted in, and very soon they were going to get their way. He stepped over Macnamara and crossed
to the window It wasn't that big, but then neither was he. He flipped up the latch, pushed the window open on
overprinted hinges, and hoisted himself through. Halfway in and halfway out he remembered he was one story up.
But a fall, even a bad fall, was better than staying for the party inside. They were pushing at the door now, the
partygoers. It was giving under the pressure of their enthusiasm. Boswell squirmed through the window; the
pavement reeled below. As the do or broke, he jum ped , hitting the co ncrete hard. He almost b ounc ed to his feet,
checking his limbs, and Hallelujah! nothing was broken. Jah loves a coward, he thought. Above him the punk was at
the wind ow, looking dow n longingly.
"Help me," he said. "I don't know what I'm doing." But then a pair of hands found his throat, and the apologies
stopp ed short.
W ond ering who he should tell, and ind eed what, B oswell started to walk aw ay from the YMCA dresse d in just a pair
of gym shorts and odd so cks, never feeling so thankful to b e cold in his life. His legs felt weak, but surely that was to
be expected.
CH ARLIE woke with the most ridiculous id ea. H e thought he'd m urdered E llen, then cut off his ow n hand . W hat a
hotbed of nonsense his subconscious was to invent such fictions! He tried to rub the sleep' from his eyes but there
was no hand there to rub with. He sat bolt upright in bed and began to yell the room down.
Yappe r had left young Rafferty to watch over the victim of this brutal mutilation with strict instru ctions to alert him
as soon as C harlie came around. R afferty had been asleep. Th e yelling woke him. Charlie looked at the boy's face; so
awestruck, so shocked. He stopped screaming at the sight of it. He was scaring the poor fellow.
"You're awake," said Rafferty, "I'll fetch someone, shall I?"
Charlie looked at him blankly.
"Stay where you are," said Rafferty. "I'll get the nurse."
Charlie put his bandaged head back on the crisp pillow and looked at his right hand, flexing it, working the muscles
this way and that. Whatever delusion had overtaken him back at the house it was well over now. The hand at the end
of the arm was his; probably always had been his. Jeudwine had told him about the body-in-rebellion syndrome: the
murderer who claims his limbs have a life of their own rather than accepting resp onsibility for his deeds; the rapist
who mutilates himself, believing the cause is the errant member, not the mind behind the member.
W ell, he wasn't going to pretend. He was insane, and that was the simple truth of it. Let them do whatever they had
to do to him with their drugs, blades, and electrodes. He'd acquiesce to it all rather than live through another night of
horro rs like the last.
There wa s a nurse in attendance. She was peering at him as tho ugh surprised he'd survived. A fetching face, he half
thought; a lovely, cool hand on his brow.
"Is he fit to be interviewed?" Rafferty timidly asked.
"I have to consult with Dr. Manson and Dr. Jeudwine," the fetching face replied, and tried to smile reassuringly at
Charlie. It came out a bit coc keyed , that smile, a little forced . She o bviously knew he was a lunatic, that was why.
She w as scared of him proba bly, and who c ould blame her? She left his side to find the consultant, leaving Charlie to
the nervous stare of Rafferty.
Ellen?" he said in a while.
"Your wife?" the young man replied.
"Yes. I wondered... did she...?"
Rafferty fidgeted, his thumbs playing tag on his lap. "She's dead," he said.
Charlie nodded. He'd known of course, but he needed to be certain. "What happens to me now?" he asked.
"Y ou're under surveillanc e."
"What does that mean?"
"It me ans I'm wa tching yo u," said Rafferty.
The boy was trying his best to be helpful, but all these questions were confounding him. Charlie tried again. "I mean

what comes after the surveillance? When do I stand trial?"
"Why should you stand trial?"
"W hy?" said C harlie; had he heard corre ctly?
"You're a victim-" a flicker of confusion crossed Rafferty's face, "-aren't you? You didn't do it... you were done to.
Som ebo dy cut o ff your... hand."
"Y es," said Charlie. "It was me."
Rafferty swallowed hard before saying: "Pardon?"
"I did it. I murd ered my wife then I cut off my own hand."
The po or boy couldn't quite grasp this one. He thought about it a full half-minute before replying.
"But why?"
Charlie shrugged.
"It doesn't make any sense," said Rafferty. "I mean for one thing, if you did it... where's the hand gone?"
LILLIAN stopped the car. There was something in the road a little way in front of her, but she couldn't quite make
out what it was. She was a strict vegetarian (except for Masonic dinners with Theodore) and a dedicated animal
conservationist, and she thought maybe some injured animal was lying in the road just beyond the sprawl of her
headlights. A fox perhaps. She'd read they were creeping back into outlying urban areas, born scavengers. But
something made her uneasy; maybe the queasy predawn light, so elusive in its illumination. She wasn't sure whether
she should get out of the car or not. Theodore wo uld have told her to drive straight on, of course, but then Theodore
had left her, hadn't he? Her fingers drummed the wheel with irritation at her own indecision. Suppose it was an
injured fox. There weren't so many in the middle of London that one could afford to pass by on the other side of the
street. She had to play the Samaritan, even if she felt a Pharisee.
Cautiously she got out of the car, and of course, after all of that, there was nothing to be seen. She walked to the
front of the car, just to be certain. Her palms were wet; spasms of excitem ent passed through her hands like small
electric shocks.
Then the noise: the whisper of hundreds of tiny feet. She'd heard stories-absurd stories she'd thought-of migrant rat
packs crossing the city by night and devouring to the bone any living thing that got in their way. Imagining rats, she
felt more like a Pharisee than ever, and stepped back toward the car. As her long shadow, thrown forward by the
head lights, shifted, it revealed the first of the pac k. It was no rat.
A hand, a long-fingered hand, ambled into the yellowish light and pointed up at her. Its arrival was followed
immediately by another of the impossible creatures, then a dozen more, and another dozen hard upon those, They
were massed like crabs at the fishmongers, glistening backs pressed close to each other, legs flicking and clicking as
they gathered in ranks. Sheer multiplication didn't make them any more believable. But even as she rejected the
sight, they began to advance upon her. She took a step back.
She felt the side of the car at her back, turned, and reached for the door. It was ajar, thank God. The spasms in her
hand s were worse now, b ut she wa s still mistress of them. A s her fingers sought the do or she let out a little cry. A
fat, black fist was squatting on the handle, its op en wrist a twist of dried me at.
Spontaneously, and atrociously, her hands began to applaud. She suddenly had no control over their behavior. They
clapped like wild things in appreciation of this coup. It was ludicrous, what she was doing, but she couldn't stop
herself. "Stop it," she told her hands, "stop it! stop it!" Abruptly they stopped, and turned 10 look at her. She knew
they were looking at her, in their eyeless fashion; sensed too that they were weary of her unfeeling way with them.
Without warning they darted for her face. Her nails, her pride and joy, found her eyes. In moments the miracle of
sight was muck on her cheek. Blinded , she lost all orientation and fell backward, bu t there were bands aplenty to
catch her. She felt herself supported b y a sea of fingers.
As they tipped her outraged body into a ditch, her wig, which had cost Theodore so much in Vienna, came off. So,
after the minimum o f persuasion, did her hands.
DR. JEUDW INE came down the stairs of the George house wondering (just wondering) if maybe the grand pappy of
his sacred pro fession, Freud, had been wro ng. The paradoxical facts of human behavio r didn't seem to fit into those
neat classical compartments he'd allotted them to. Perhaps attemp ting to be rational about the human mind was a
contradiction in terms. He stood in the gloom at the bottom of the stairs, not really wanting to go back into the dining
room or the kitche n, but feeling ob liged to view the scenes of the crimes o ne mo re time. T he em pty house gave him
the creeps. And being alone in it, even with a policeman standing guard on the front step, didn't help his peace of
mind. He felt guilty, felt he'd let Charlie down. Clearly he hadn't trawled Charlie's psyche deeply enough to bring up
the real catch, the true motive behind the appalling acts that he had committed. To murder his own wife, whom he
had professed to love so deeply, in their marital bed; then to cut off his own hand. It was unthinkable. Jeudwine

looked at his own hands for a mome nt, at the tracery of tendons and purp le-blue veins at his wrist. The po lice still
favored the intruder theory, but he had no doubt that Charlie had done the deeds-murder, mutilation, and all. The
only fact that app alled Jeudwine m ore was that he hadn't uncovered the slightest prope nsity for such acts in his
patient.
He went into the dining room. Forensic had finished its work around the house; there was a light dusting of
fingerprint powder on a numb er of the surfaces. It was a m iracle (w asn't it?) the way each human han d was different;
its whorls as unique as a voice pattern or a face. He yawned. He'd been woken by Charlie's call in the middle of the
night and he hadn't had any sleep since then. He'd watched as Charlie was bound up and taken away, watched the
investigators about their business, watched a cod-white dawn raise its head over toward the river. He'd drunk coffee,
moped , thought deeply about giving up his position as psychiatric consultant before this story hit the news, drunk
more coffee, thought better of resignation, and now, despairing of Freud or any other guru, was seriously
contemplating a bestseller on his relationship with wife-murderer Charles George. That way, even if he lost his job,
he'd have found something to salvage from the whole sorry episode. And Freud? Viennese charlatan. What did the
old opium eater have to tell anyone?
He slumped in one of the dining-room chairs and listened to the hush that had descended on the house,. as though
the walls, shocked by what they'd seen, were holding their breaths. Maybe he dozed o ff a moment. In sleep he heard
a snapping sound, dreamed of a dog, and woke up to see a cat in the kitchen, a fat black-and-white cat. Charlie had
mentioned this household pet in passing: What was it named? Heartburn? That was it; so named because of the black
smudges over its eyes, which gave it a perpetually fretful expression. The cat was looking at the spillage of blood on
the kitche n floor, apparently trying to find a way to skirt the po ol and reach its food bow l without having to dabble
its paws in the mess its master had left behind him. Jeudwine watched it fastidiously pick its way across the kitchen
floor and sniff at its empty bowl. It didn't occur to him to feed the thing; he hated animals.
W ell, he de cided , there was no purp ose to be served in staying in the house any longer. H e'd performed all the acts
of repe ntance he intend ed ; felt as guilty as he was cap ab le of feeling. One mo re quick loo k upstairs, just in case he'd
missed a clue, then he'd leave.
He was back at the bottom o f the stairs before he hea rd the c at sque al. Squ eal? No : more like shriek. Hea ring the cry,
his spine felt like a column o f ice do wn the m iddle of his back; as ch illed as ice , as fragile. H urriedly, he retraced his
steps through the hall into the dining room. The cat's head was on the carpet, being rolled along by two-by two-(say
it, Jeudwine)-hands.
He looked b eyond the game and into the kitchen, where a dozen more beasts were scurrying over the floor, back and
forth. Some were on the top of the cabinet, sniffing around; others climbing the mock-brick wall to reach the knives
left on the rack.
"Oh Charlie he said gently, chiding the absent maniac. "What have you done?"
His eyes began to swell with tears; not for Charlie, but for the generations that would come when he, Jeudwine, was
silenced. Simpleminded, trusting generations, who would put their faith in the efficacy of Freud and the holy writ of
reason. He felt his knees beginning to tremble, and he sank to the dining room carpet, his eyes too full now to see
clearly the rebels that were gathering around him. Sensing something alien sitting on his lap, he looked do wn, and
there were his own two hands. Their index fingers w ere just touching, tip to m anicured tip. Slowly, with horrible
intention in their movement, the index fingers raised their nailed heads and looked up at him. Then they turned and
began to crawl up his chest, finding finger holds in each fold of his Italian jacket, in each buttonhole. The ascent
ended abruptly at his neck, and so did Jeudwine.
CHAR LIE'S left hand was afraid. It needed reassurance, it needed encouragement-in a word, it needed Right. After
all, Right had been the Messiah of this new age, the one with a vision of a future without the body. Now the army
Left had mounted needed a glimpse of that vision, or it would soon degenerate into a slaughtering rabble. If that
happened d efeat would swiftly follow. Such was the c onventiona l wisdom o f revolutions.
So L eft had led them ba ck home, looking for Ch arlie in the last place it had seen him. A vain hope, of course, to
think he would have gone back there, but it was an act of desperation.
Circumstance, however, had not deserted the insurgents. Although Charlie hadn't been there, Dr. Jeudwine had, and
Jeudwine's hands not only knew where Charlie had been taken but the route there, and the very bed he was lying in.
BQSW ELL hadn't really known why he was running, or to where. His critical faculties were on hold, his sense of
geography utterly confused. But some part of him seemed to know where he was going, even if he didn't, because he
began to p ick up speed once he came to the bridge, and then the jog turned into a run that too k no account of his
burning lungs or his thudding head. Still innocent of any intention but escape, he now realized that he had skirted the
station and was running parallel with the railway line. He was simply going wherever his legs carried him, and that

was the beginning and end of it.
The train ca me sudde nly out of the daw n. It didn 't whistle, didn't warn. Perhaps the driver no ticed him, but prob ably
not. Even if he had, the man c ould not have be en held respo nsible fo r subse quent events. No, it was all his ow n fault,
the way his feet suddenly veered toward the track, and his knees buckled so that he fell across the line. Boswell's last
coherent thought, as the wheels reached him, was that the train was merely passing from A to B, and, in passing,
would neatly cut off his legs between groin and knee. Then he was under the wheels-the carriages hurtling by above
him-and the train let out a whistle (so like a scream) which swept him away into the dark.
TH EY brought the black kid into the hospital just after six. T he hospital day beg an early, and d eep-sleeping patients
were being stirred from their dreams to face another long and tedious day. Cups of gray, defeated tea were being
thrust into resentful hands, temperatures were being taken, medication distributed. The boy and his terrible accident
caused scarcely a ripple.
Charlie was dreaming again. Not one of his Upper Nile dreams, courtesy of the Hollywood hills, not Imperial Rome
or the slave ships of Phoenicia. This was something in black and white. He dreamed he was lying in his coffin. Ellen
was there (his subconscious had not caught up with the fact of her death apparently), and his mother and his father.
Indeed his w hole life was in attendance. So meb ody came (was it Jeudwine? T he co nsoling voice seemed fam iliar) to
kindly screw down the lid on his coffin, and he tried to alert the mourners to the fact that he was still alive. When
they did n't hear him, panic set in; but no matter how m uch he shouted, the words mad e no im pression'. All he could
do was lie there and let them seal him up in that terminal bedroom.
The dream jumpe d a few groo ves. N ow he could hear the service moa ning on som ewhere above his head . "M an hath
but a short time to live He heard the creak of the ropes, and the shadow of the grave seemed to darken the dark. He
was being let down into the earth, still trying his best to protest. But the air was getting stuffy in this hole. He was
finding it more and more d ifficult to breathe, much less yell his com plaints. H e cou ld just manage to haul a stale
shiver of air through his aching sinuses, but his mouth seemed stuffed with something, flowers perhaps, and he
couldn't move his head to spit them out. Now he could feel the thump of clod on coffin, and Christ alive if he
couldn't hear the sound of worm s at either sid e of him , licking their chop s. His he art was p ump ing fit to burst. His
face, he was sure, must be blue-black with the effort of trying to find breath.
Then, mira culously, there wa s somebo dy in the coffin with him , some bod y fighting to p ull the constriction out of his
mouth, off his face.
"Mr. George!" she was saying, this angel of mercy. He opened his eyes in the darkness. It was the nurse from that
hospital he'd been in-she was in the coffin, too. "Mr. George!" She was panicking, this model of calm and patience.
She w as almost in tears as she fought to drag his hand off his fac e. "Y ou're suffocating yo urself!" she shouted in his
face.
Other arms were helping with the fight now, and they were winning. It took three nurses to remove his hand, but
they succeeded. Charlie began to breathe again, a glutton for air.
"Are you all right, Mr. George?"
He opened his mouth to reassure the angel, but his voice had m ome ntarily deserted him. H e was d imly aware that his
hand was still putting up a fight at the end of his arm.
"W here's Jeudwine?" he gasped . "Get him, please."
"T he do ctor is unavailab le at the mome nt, but he'll be com ing to see you later on in the day."
"I want to see him now.
"Don't worry, Mr. George," the nurse replied, her bedside manner reestablished, "we'll just give you a mild sedative,
and then you can sleep awhile."
"N o!"
"Y es, M r. George!" she re plied, firmly. "D on't worry Yo u're in goo d hands."
"I don't want to sleep any more. They have control over you when you're asleep, don't you see?"
"Y ou're safe here."
He knew better. H e knew he wasn't safe anywhere, not now. Not while he still had a hand . It was no t under his
control any lo nger, if indeed it had ever been. Perhap s it was just an illusion o f servitude it bad created these fortyodd years, a p erform ance to lull him into a false sense of autocracy. All this he wanted to say, but none of it would
fit into his mo uth. Instea d he just said: " No more sleep ."
But the nurse had procedures. The ward was already too full of patients, and with more coming in every hour
(terrible scenes at the YMCA she'd just heard; dozens of casualties, mass suicide attempted), all she could do was
sedate the distressed and get on with the business of the day. "Just a mild sedative," she said again, and the next
moment she had a needle in her hand, spitting slumber.
"Just listen a moment," he said, trying to initiate a reasoning process with her; but she wasn't available for debate.

"Now don't be such a baby," she chided, as tears started.
"You don't understand," he explained, as she prodded up the vein at the crook of his arm.
"You can tell Dr. Jeudwine everything when he comes to see you." The needle was in his arm, the plunger was
plunging.
"No !" he said, and pulled away. The nurse hadn't expected such violence. The patient was up and out of bed before
she could complete the plunge, the hypo still dangling from his arm.
"M r. George," she sa id sternly. " W ill you please get back into bed!"
Charlie pointed at her with his stump.
"Don't come near me," he said.
She tried to shame him. "A ll the other patients are behaving well," she said , "why can't you?" Ch arlie sho ok his
head. The hypo, having worked its way out of his vein, fell to the floor, still three-quarters full. "I will not tell you
again."
"Damn right you won't," said Charlie.
He bolted away down the w ard, his escap e egge d on by patients to the right and left of him. "Go , boy, go ,"
somebod y yelled. The nurse gave belated chase but at the door an instant accomplice intervened, literally throwing
himself in her way. Charlie was out of sight and lost in the corridors before she was up and after him again.
It was an easy place to lose yourself in, he soon realized. T he hospital had been built in the late nineteenth century,
then added to as funds and donations allowed: a wing in 1911, another after the First World W ar, more wards in the
fifties, and the Chaney Memorial Wing in 1973. The place was a labyrinth. They'd take an age to find him.
The prob lem was, he didn't feel so good. T he stump of his left arm had begun to ache as his painkillers wore off, and
he had the distinct impression that it was bleeding under the bandages. In addition, the quarter hypo of sedative had
slowed his system down. He felt slightly stupid, and he was certain that his condition must show on his face. But he
was not going to allow himself to be coaxed back into that bed, back into sleep, until he'd sat down in a quiet place
somewhere and thought the whole thing through.
He found refuge in a tiny room off one of the corridors. Lined with filing cabinets and piles of reports, it smelled
slightly damp. He'd found his way into the Memorial Wing, though he didn't know it. The seven-story monolith had
been built with a bequest from millionaire Frank Chaney, and the tycoon's own building firm had done the
construction job, as the old man's will required. They had used substandard materials and a defunct drainage system,
which was why Chaney had died a millionaire, and the wing was crumbling fro m the b asement up. Sliding himself
into a clammy niche b etween two o f the cab inets, well out of sight should somebo dy cha nce to com e in, Charlie
crouched on the floor and interrogated his right hand.
"W ell?" he demanded in a reasonable tone. "E xplain yourself."
It played dumb.
"No use," he said. "I'm on to you.
Still, it just sat there at the end of his arm, innocent as a babe.
"Y ou tried to kill me . ." he accused it.
Now the hand op ened a little, without his instruction, and gave him the once over.
"You could try if again, couldn't you?"
Ominously, it began to flex its fingers, like a pianist preparing for a particularly difficult solo. Yes, it said, I could;
any old time.
"In fact, there's very little I can do to stop you, is there?" Charlie said. "Sooner or later you'll catch me unawares.
Can't have somebody watching over me for the rest of my life. So where does that leave me, I ask myself? As good
as dead, wouldn't you say?"
The hand closed d own a little, the puffy flesh of its palm crinkling into grooves of pleasure. Yes, it was saying,
you're done for, poor fool, and there's not a thing you can do.
"Y ou killed Ellen."
I did, the hand smiled.
"You severed my other hand, so it could escape. Am I right?"
You are, said the hand.
"I saw it, you know," Charlie said. "I saw it running off. And now you want to do the same thing, am I correct? You
want to be up and away."
Correct.
"You're not going to give me any peace, are you, till you've got your freedom?"
Right again.
"So ," said Charlie, "I think we und erstand each other, and I'm willing to do a dea l with you."
The hand came close r to his face, crawling up his pajama shirt, consp iratorial.

"I'll release you," he said.
It was on his neck no w, its grip not tight, but cozy enough to make him nervous.
"I'll find a way, I promise. A guillotine, a scalpel, I don't know what."
It was rubbing itself on him like a cat now, stroking him. "But you have to do it my way, in my time. Because if you
kill me you'll have no chanc e of surv ival, will you? They'll just bury you with me, the way they buried D ad's hands."
The hand stopp ed stro king and climbed up the side of the filing cab inet.
"Do we have a deal?" said Charlie.
But the hand was ignoring him. It had sudde nly lost all intere st in bargain making. If it had possessed a nose , it
would have bee n sniffing the air. In the space o f the last few m ome nts things ha d cha nged -the deal was o ff.
Charlie got up clumsily, and went to the window. The glass was dirty on the inside and caked with several years of
bird droppings on the outside, but he could just see the garden through it. It had been laid out in accordance with the
terms of the millionaire's bequest: a formal garden that would stand as as glorious a monument to his good taste as
the building wa s to his pragmatism. B ut since the build ing had started to deteriorate, the garden had b een left to its
own devices. Its few trees were either dead or bo wed under the weight of unpruned branches; the borders were rife
with wee ds; the b enches on their backs with their square legs in the air. O nly the lawn was kept mowed, a small
concession to care. Somebody, a doctor taking a moment out for a quiet smoke, was wandering among the strangled
walks. O therwise the gard en was emp ty.
But Charlie's hand was up at the glass, scrabbling at it, raking at it with his nails, vainly trying to get to the outside
world . There wa s something o ut there b esides chao s, app arently.
"You want to go out," said Charlie.
The hand flattened itself against the window and began to bang its palm rhythmically against the glass, a drummer
for an unseen army'. He pulled it away from the window no t knowing what to do If he denied its demands, it co uld
hurt him. If he acquiesced to it and tried to get out into the garden what might he find? On the other hand, what
choice did he have?
"All right," he said, "we're go ing."
The corridor outside was bustling with panicky activity and there was scarcely a glance in his direction, despite the
fact that he was only wearing his regulation pajamas and was barefoo t. Bells were ringing, loudspeakers summoning
this doctor o r that, grieving people being shunted betwe en mo rtuary and toilet. T here w as talk of the terrible sights in
casualty - boys with no hands, dozens of them. Charlie moved too fast through the throng to catch a coherent
sentence. It was best to look intent, he thought, to look as though he had a purpose and a destination. It took him a
while to locate the exit into the garden, and he knew his hand was getting impatient. It was flexing and unflexing at
his side, urging him on. Then a sign-To the Chaney Trust Memorial Garden-and he turned a corner into a backwater
corridor, devoid of urgent traffic, with a door at the far end that led to the open air.
It was very still outside. Not a bird in the air or on the grass, not a bee whining among the flowerbeds. Even the
doc tor had gone, back to his surgeries presum ably.
Charlie's hand was in ecstasy now. It was sweating so much
it dripped, and all the blood left it so that it had paled to white.
It didn't seem to b elong to him anymo re. It was another being to which he, by some unfortunate quirk o f anatomy,
was attached . He w ould be delighted to be rid of it.
The grass was dew-da mp underfoot, and here, in the shado w of the seven-story blo ck, it was cold. It was still only
six-thirty. M aybe the bird s were still asleep, the bees still sluggish in their hives. M aybe there was nothing in this
garden to be afraid of; only rot-headed roses and early worms turning somersaults in the dew. Maybe his hand was
wrong and there was just morning out here.
As he wandered farther down the garden, he noticed the footprints of the doctor, darker on the silver-green lawn.
Just as he arrive d at the tree, and the grass turned red, he realized that the prints led one w ay only.
BO SW ELL, in a willing coma, felt nothing, and was glad of it. His mind dimly recognized the possibility of waking,
but the thought was so vague it was easy to reject. Once in a while a sliver of the real world (of pain, of power)
would skitter behind his lids, alight for a moment, then flutter away. Boswell wanted none of it. He didn't want
consciousness, ever again. He had a feeling about what it would be to wake, about what was waiting for him out
there, kicking its heels.
CH ARLIE looked up into the b ranches. The tree had b orne two am azing kinds of fruit.
One was a human being; the surgeon with the cigarette. He was dead, his neck lodged in a cleft where two branches
met. H e had no hands. H is arms ended in round w ound s that still drained he avy clots of brilliant color down on to
the grass. Above his head the tree sw arme d with that other fruit, more unnatural still. The hand s were everyw here it

seemed, hundreds of them, chattering away like a manual parliament as they debated their tactics. All shades and
shapes, scam pering up a nd do wn the swaying branches.
Seeing them gathered like this the metaphors collapsed. They were what they were: human hands. That was the
horror.
Charlie wanted to run, but his right hand was having none of it. These were its disciples, gathered here in such
abundance, and they awaited its parables and its prophecies Charlie looked at the dead do ctor and then at the
murdering hands and thought of Ellen, his Ellen, killed through no fault of his own, and already cold. They'd pay for
that crime-all of them As long as the rest of his body still did him service, he d make them pay. It was cowardice,
trying to bargain with this cancer at his wrist; he saw that now. It and its like were a pestilence They had no place
living.
The army had seen him, word of his presence passing through the ranks like wildfire. They were surging down the
trunk, so me d ropping like ripene d apples from the lo wer branches, eager to em brace the M essiah. In a few mome nts
they would be swarming over him and all advantage would be lost. It was now or never. He turned away from the
tree before his right hand could seize a branch and looked up at the Chaney Memo rial Wing, seeking inspiration.
The tower loomed over the garden, windows blinded by the sky, doors closed. There was no solace there.
Behind him he heard the whisp er of the grass as it was trod den by countless finge rs. Th ey were alread y on his heels
all enthusiasm as-they came following their leader.
Of co urse they would com e, he realized, wherever he led they would com e. Perhaps their blind adoration o f his
remaining hand was an exploitable weakness. He scanned the building a second time and his desperate gaze found
the fire escape; it zigzagged up the side of the building to the roo f. He; m ade a dash for it, surp rising himself with his
turn of speed. There was no time to look behind him to see if they were following, he had to trust to their devotion.
W ithin a few paces his furious hand was at his neck, threatening to take out his throat, but he sprinted on, indifferent
to its clawing. He reached the bottom of the fire escape and, lithe with adrenaline, took the metal steps two and three
at a time. His balance was not so good without a hand to hold the safety railing, but so what if be was bruised? It was
only his b ody.
At the third landing he risked a glance down through the grille of the stairs. A crop of fresh flowers was carpeting
the gro und at the bottom o f the fire escape and w as spre ading up the stairs toward him. They were coming in their
hungry hundreds, all nails and hatred. Le t them come, he thought; let the bastards co me. I bega n this and I can finish
it.
At the windows of the Chaney Memorial Wing a host of faces had appeared. Panicking, disbelieving voices drifted
up from the lower floors. It was too late now to tell them his life story. They would have to piece that together for
themselves. A nd wh at a fine jigsaw it would make! M aybe, in their attem pts to un derstand wh at had happ ened this
morning they would turn up some plausible solution, an explanation for this uprising that he had not found; but he
dou bted it.
Fourth story now, and stepping on to the fifth. His right hand was digging into his neck. Maybe he was bleeding. But
then perhaps it was rain, warm rain, that splashed onto his chest and down his legs. Two storys to go, then the roof
There was a hum in the metalwork beneath him, the noise of their myriad feet as they clambered up toward him. He
had counted on their adoration, and he'd been right to do so. The roof was now just a dozen steps away, and he
risked a second look down past his body (it wasn't rain on him) to see the fire escape solid with hands, like aphids
clustered on the stalk of a flower. No, that was m etaph or again. An end to that.
The wind whipped across the heights, and it was fresh, but Charlie had no time to appreciate its promise. He climbed
over the two-foot parapet and onto the gravel-lined roof Corpse of pigeons lay in puddles, cracks snaked across the
concrete a bucket marked "Soiled Dressings" lay on its side, its contents green. He started across this wilderness as
the first of the a rmy; fingered the ir way over the parapet.
The pain in his throa t was getting through to his racing' brain now, as his treacherous fingers wo rmed at his
windp ipe. H e had little energy left after the rac e up the fire escape, and crossing the roo f to the oppo site side (let it
be a straight fall onto concrete) was difficult. He stumbled once, and again All the strength had gone from his legs
and nonse nse filled his
head in place of co herent though t. A koan, a B uddhist riddle he'd see n on the cove r of a book once , was itching in
his mem ory.
"W hat is the so und...? " it began, but he couldn't complete the phrase, try as he might.
"'What is the sound...?"
Forget the ridd les, he ordered himself, pressing his trembling legs to make another step , and then ano ther. He almost
fell against the parapet at the opposite side of the roof and stared down. It was a straight fall. A parking lot lay below
at the front of the building. It was deserted. He leaned over further and drops of his blood fell from his lacerated
neck, diminishing quickly, down, down, to wet the ground. I'm coming he said to gravity, and to Ellen, and thought

how good it would be to die and never worry again if his gums bled when he brushed his teeth, or his waistline
swelled, or some beauty passed him on the street whose lips he wanted to kiss, and never would. And suddenly, the
army was up on him , swarm ing up his legs in a fever of victory.
You can come, he said as they obscured his body from head to foot, witless in their enthusiasm, you can come
wherever I go.
"W hat is the sound...?" The phrase was on the tip of his tongue.
Oh yes, now it came to him. "What is the sound of one hand clapping?" It was so satisfying, to remember something
you were trying so hard to dig up out of your subconscious, like finding some trinket you thought you'd lost forever.
The thrill of remembering sweetened his last moments. He pitched himself into empty space, falling over and over
until there was a sudden end to dental hygiene and the beauty of young women. They came in a rain after him,
breaking on the co ncrete around his b ody, wave up on wa ve of the m, throwing themselves to their deaths in pursuit
of their Messiah.
To the patients and nurses c ramm ed at the windows it wa s a scene from a world of wo nders-a rain o f frogs wo uld
have been comm onplace beside it. It inspired more awe than terror. It was fabulous. Too soo n, it stopped, and after a
minute or so a few brave souls ventured out among the litter to see what could be seen. There was a great deal, and
yet nothing. It was a rare spectacle, of course-horrible, unforgettable. But there was no significance to be discovered
in it; merely the paraphernalia of a minor apocalypse. Nothing to be done but to clear it up, their own hands
reluctantly com pliant as the corpses were catalogued and b oxed for further examina tion. A few of tho se involved in
the operation found a private moment in which to pray: for explanations, or at least for dreamless sleep. Even the
smattering of the agnostics on the staff were surprised to discover how easy it was to put palm to palm.
IN his private room in intensive care Boswell came to. He reached for the bell beside his bed and pressed it, but
nobody answered. Som ebody was in the room with him, hiding behind the screen in the corner. He had heard the
shuffling of the intruder's feet.
He pressed the bell again, but there were bells ringing everywhere in the building, and nobody seemed to be
answe ring any o f them. U sing the cabine t beside him fo r levera ge he hauled himself to the edge of his bed to get a
better view of this joker.
"Come out," he murmured through dry lips. But the ba stard was biding his time. "Co me o n ?? . I know you're there."
He pulled himself a little farther, and somehow all at once he realized that his center of balance had radically altered,
that he had no legs, that he was going to fall out of bed. He flung out his arms to save his head from striking the floor
and succeeded in so doing. The b reath had been knocked out of him however. Dizzy, he lay where he'd fallen, trying
to orient himself. W hat had hap pened ? W here were his legs, in the name of Jah, where were his legs?
His b lood shot eye s scanned the room, and came to rest on the naked feet which were now a yard fro m his no se. A
tag around the ankle marked them for the furnace. He looked up and they were his legs, standing there severed
between groin and knee, but still alive and kicking. For a moment he thought they intended to do him harm, but no.
Having made their presence known to him they left him where he lay, content to be free.
And did his eyes envy their liberty, he wondered, and was his tongue eager to be out of his mouth and away, and
was every pa rt of him, in its subtle way, preparing to forsake him? H e was an alliance o nly held together by the m ost
tenuous of truces. N ow, with the precedent set, how long before the next uprising? M inutes? Ye ars?
He waited, heart in mouth, for the fall of Empire.

REVELATIONS
HE RE HA D b een talk of tornado es in Am arillo; of cattle, cars, and so metimes entire house s lifted up and d ashed to
the earth again, of whole communities laid waste in a few devastating moments. Perhaps that was what made
Virginia so uneasy tonight. Either that or the accumulated fatigue of traveling so many empty highways with just the
deadpan skies of Texas for scenery, and nothing to look forward to at the end of the next leg of the journey but
another round o f hymns and hellfire. She sat, her spine aching, in the b ack o f the black Po ntiac and tried her best to
get some sleep. But the hot, still air clung about her thin neck and gave her dreams of suffocation. So she gave up
her attempts to rest and contented herself with watching the wheat fields pass and counting the grain elevators bright
against the thund erhea ds that were beginning to gather in the northe ast.
In the front of the vehicle Earl sang to himself as he drove. Beside her, John-no more than two feet away from her
but to all intents and purposes a million miles' distance-studied the Epistles of St. Paul, murmuring the words as he

read. Then, as they drove through Pantex Village ("They build the warheads here," Earl had said cryptically, then
said no more) the rain began. It came d own suddenly as evening w as beginning to fall, lending darkness to darkness,
almost instantly plunging the Amarillo-P amp a Highway into watery night.
Virginia rolled up her window T he rain, though refreshing, was soaking her plain blue dress, the only one John
appro ved of her w earing at meetings. N ow there was nothing to look at beyond the glass. She sat, the unease
growing in her with every mile they covered to Pampa, listening to the vehemence of the downpour on the roof of
the car, and to her husband speaking in whispers at her side.
"W herefo re he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and rise fro m the d ead, and C hrist shall give thee light.
"See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise,
"Redeeming the time, b ecause the days are evil."
He sat, as eve r, upright, the sam e dog-eared, soft-backed B ible he'd been using for years open in his lap. H e surely
knew the passages he was reading by heart. He quoted them often enough, and with such a mixture of familiarity and
freshness that the words might have been his, not Paul's, newly minted from his own mouth. That passion and vigor
would in time make John Gyer America's greatest evangelist, Virginia had no doubt of that. During the grueling,
hectic weeks of the tri-state tour her husband had displayed unprecedented confidence and m aturity. His message
had lost none of its vehemence with this newfound professionalism-it was still that old-fashioned mixture of
damnation and redemption that he always propounded-but now he had complete control of his gifts. In town after
town-in Oklahoma and New M exico and now in Texas-the faithful had gathered to listen by the hundreds and
thousands, eager to come again into God's kingdom. In Pampa, thirty-five miles from here, they would already be
assembling, despite the rain, determined to have a grand stand view when the crusader arrived. They would have
brough t their children, their savings, and most of all, their hunger for forgiveness.
But forgiveness wa s for tom orro w. First they had to get to P amp a, and the rain was worsening. Earl had given up his
singing o nce the storm bega n, and was co ncentrating all his attention o n the road ah ead. Som etimes he wo uld sigh to
himself and stretch in his seat. Virginia tried not to concern herself with the way he was driving, but as the torrent
became
a deluge her anxiety got the better of her. She leaned forward from the backseat and started to peer through the
windshield, watching for vehicles coming in the opposite direction. Accidents were common in conditions like these:
bad weather and a tired driver eager to be twenty miles further down the road than he was. At her side John sensed
her concern.
"The Lord is with us," he said, riot looking up from the tightly printed pages, though it was by now far too dark for
him to read.
"It's a bad night, John," she sa id. "M aybe we sho uldn't try to go all the way to Pam pa. E arl must be tired ."
"I'm fine," Earl p ut in. "It's not that far,"
"Y ou're tired," Virginia rep eated . "W e all are."
"Well, we could find a motel, I guess," Gyer suggested. "What do you think, Earl?"
Earl shrugged his sizeable shoulders. " W hateve r you say, boss," he rep lied, not putting up much of a fight.
Gyer turned to his wife and gently patted the back of her hand. "W e'll find a mo tel," he said. "Earl can call ahead to
Pampa and tell them that we'll be with them in the morning. How's that?"
She smiled at him, but he wasn't looking at her.
"I think W hite Deer's next off the highway," Earl to ld Virginia. "M aybe they'll have a m otel."
IN fact, the Cottonwoo d M otel lay a half mile we st of W hite Deer, in an area o f waste ground south o f U.S. 60, a
small establishment with a dead or dying cottonwood tree in the lot between its two low buildings. There were a
number of cars already in the motel parking lot and lights burning in most of the rooms; fellow fugitives from the
storm presumably. Earl drove into the lot and parked as close to the manager's office as possible, then ma de a da sh
across the rain-lashed ground to find out if the place had any rooms for the night. With the engine stilled, the sound
of the rain on the roof of the Pontiac was more oppressive than ever.
"I hope there's space for us," Virginia said, watching the water on the windo w sme ar the neo n sign. Gyer didn't
reply. The rain thundered on overhead. "Talk to me, John," she said to him.
"What for?"
She shook her head. "Never mind." Strands of hair clung to her slightly clammy forehead; though the rain had come,
the heat in the air had not lifted. "I hate the rain," she said.
"It won't last all night," Gyer replied, running a hand through his thick gray hair. It was a gesture he used on the
platform as p unctua tion; a pause b etween one mom entous statement and the next. She knew his rhetoric, both
physical and verbal, so well. Sometimes she thought she knew everything about him there was to know; that he had
nothing left to tell her that she truly wanted to hear. But then the sentiment was probably mutual. They had long ago

ceased to have a ma rriage recognizable as such. T onight, as every night on this tour, they would lie in separate bed s,
and he would sleep that deep, easy sleep that came so readily to him, while she surreptitiously swallowed a pill or
two to bring so me welcom e serenity.
"Sleep," he had often said, "is a time to commune with the Lord." He believed in the efficacy of dreams, though he
didn't talk of what he saw in them. The time would come when he would unveil the majesty of his visions, she had
no doubt of that. But in the meantime he slept alone and kept his counsel, leaving her to whatever secret sorrows she
might have. It was easy to be bitter, but she fought the temp tation. H is destiny was manifest, it was demanded of him
by the Lord. If he was fierce with her he was fiercer still with himself, living by a regime that would have destroyed
lesser men, and still chastizing himself for his pettiest act of weakness.
At last, Earl appe ared from the office and crossed back to the car at a run. H e had three keys.
"Roo ms Seven and Eight," he said breathlessly, the rain dripping off his brow and nose. "I got the key to the
interco nnecting do or, too ."
"Go od," said Gyer.
"Last two in the place," he said. "I'll drive the car around. T he rooms are in the other b uilding."
TH E interior of the two rooms was a hymn to banality. They'd stayed in what seemed like a thousand cells like
these, identical down to the sickly orange bedcovers and the light-faded print of the Grand Canyon on the pale green
walls. John was insensitive to his surroundings and always had been, but to Virginia's eyes these rooms were an apt
model for Purgatory. Soulless limbos in which nothing of moment had ever happened, nor ever would. There was
nothing to mark these roo ms out as differe nt from all the others, but there wa s something d ifferent in her tonight.
It wasn't talk of tornadoes that had b rought this strangeness on. She watched Earl to-mg and fro-ing with the bags,
and felt odd ly remo ved from herself, as tho ugh she were w atching events through a veil denser than the warm rain
falling outside the door. She was almost sleepwalking. When John quietly told her which bed would be hers for
tonight, she lay down and tried to control her sense of dislocation by relaxing. It was easier said than done.
Somebo dy had a television on in a nearby room, and the late-night movie was word-for-word clear through the
paper-thin walls.
"Are you all right?"
She o pened he r eyes. E arl, ever solicitous, was lo oking dow n at her. H e looked as weary as she felt. His face, deep ly
tanned from standing in the sun at the open-air rallies, looked yellowish rather than its usual healthy brown. He was
slightly overweight too, though this bulk m arried well with his wide, stubbo rn features.
"Y es, I'm fine, thank you," she sa id. "A little thirsty."
"I'll see if I can get som ething for you to drink. T hey proba bly have a Coke machine."
She nodded , meeting his eyes. There was a subtext to this exchange which Gyer, who was sitting at the table making
notes for tomo rrow's speech, co uld not know. On and off throughout the tour E arl had supp lied Virginia with pills.
Nothing exotic, just tranquilizers to soothe her increasingly jangled nerves. But they-like stimulants, makeup, and
jewelry-were not looked kindly upon by a man of Gyer's principles, and when, by chance, her husband had
disco vered the drugs, there had b een an ugly scene. Earl had taken the brunt of his em ployer's ire, for which Virginia
was deeply grateful. And though he was under strict instructions never to repeat the crime, he was soon supplying
her again. Their guilt was an almost pleasurable secret between them. She read complicity in his eyes even now, as
he did in hers.
"No Coca-Cola," Gyer said.
"W ell, I thought we co uld make an exce ption-"
"Exception?" Gyer said, his voice taking on a characteristic note of self-regard. Rhetoric was in the air, and Earl
cursed his idiot tongue. "The Lord doesn't give us laws to live by so that we can make exceptions, Earl. You know
better than that."
At that moment Earl didn't much care what the Lord did or said. His concern was for Virginia. She was strong, he
knew, desp ite her D eep South courtesy and the accomp anying facade of frailty; strong eno ugh to bring them all
through the mino r crises of the tou r, when the Lord had failed to step in and help his agents in the field. But nobo dy's
strength was limitless, and he sensed that she was close to collapse. She gave so much to her husband; of her love
and admiration, of her energies and enthusiasm. More than once in the past few weeks Earl had thought that perhaps
she deserved better than the man in the pulpit.
"M aybe you could get me some ice water?" she said, looking up at him with lines of fatigue beneath her gray-blue
eyes. She was not, by contemporary standards, beautiful. Her features were too flawlessly aristocratic. Exhaustion
though lent them new glamour.
"Ice water, coming right up," Earl said, forcing a jovial tone that he had little strength to sustain. He went to the
door.

"W hy don't you call the office and have someone bring it over?" Gyer suggested as Earl made to leave. "I want to go
through next week's itinera ry with you."
"It's no problem," Earl said. "Really. Besides, I should call Pampa, and tell them we're delayed," and he was out of
the door and onto the walkway before he could be contradicted.
He needed an excuse to have some time to himself. The atmosphere between Virginia and Gyer was deteriorating by
the day, and it was not a pleasant spectacle. He stood for a long moment watching the rain sheet down. The
cottonwood tre e in the m iddle of the lot hung its balding head in the fury of the deluge. H e knew exactly how it felt.
As he stood on the walkway wondering how he would be able to keep his sanity in the last eight weeks of the tour,
two figures walked from the highway and crossed the lot. He didn't see them, though the path they took to Room
Seven led them directly across his line of vision. They walked through the drenching rain from the waste ground
behind the manager's office-where, back in 1955, they had parked their red Buick-and though the rain fell in a steady
torrent it left them both untouched. The wom an, whose hairstyle had been in and out of fashion twice since the
fifties, and whose clothes had the same period look, slowed for a moment to stare at the man who was watching the
cottonwood tree with such rapt attention. He had kind eyes, despite his frown. In her time she might have loved such
a man, she thought; but then her time had long gone, hadn't it? Buck, her husband, turned back to her-"Are you
coming, Sadie?" he wanted to know-and she followed him onto the concrete walkway (it had been wo oden the last
time she was here) and through the open doo r of Room Seven.
A chill ran down Earl's back. Too much staring at the rain, he thought; that and too much fruitless longing. He
walked to the end of the patio, steeled himself for the dash across the lot to the office and, counting to three, ran.
Sadie Durning glanced over her shoulder to watch Earl go, then looked back at Buck. The years had not tempered
the resentment she felt toward her husband, any more than they'd improved his shifty features or his too-easy laugh.
She had not much liked him on June 2, 1955, and she didn't much like him now, precisely thirty years on. Buck
Durning had the soul of a philanderer, as her father had always warned her. That in itself was not so terrible; it was
perhap s the masculine co ndition. But it had led to such grubb y behavior that eve ntually she had tired of his endless
deceptions. He-unknowing to the last-had taken her low spirits as a cue for a second honeymoon. This phenomenal
hypocrisy had finally overridden any lingering thoughts of tolerance or forgiveness she might have entertained, and
when, three decades ago tonight, they had checked into the Cottonwood Motel, she had come prepared for more than
a night of love. She had let Buck sho wer, and whe n he em erged , she had leveled the Sm ith and W esson .38 at him
and blown a gaping hole in his chest. Then she'd run, throwing the gun away as she went, knowing the police were
bound to catch her, and not much caring when they
They'd taken her to Carson County Jail in Panhandle, and, after a few weeks, to trial. She never once tried to deny
the murder. There'd been enough deception in her thirty-eight years of life as it was. And so when they found her
defiant, they took her to Huntsville State Prison, chose a bright day the following October, and summarily passed
2,250 volts through her body, stopping her unrepentant heart almost instantaneously. An eye for an eye; a tooth for a
tooth. She had been brought up with such simple moral equations. She'd not been unhappy to die by the same
mathematics.
But tonight she and Buck had elected to retrace the journey they'd taken thirty years befo re, to see if they could
discover how and why their marriage had ended in murder. It was a chance offered to many dead lovers, though few,
apparently, took it up. Perhaps the thought of experiencing again the cataclysm that had ended their lives was too
distasteful. Sadie, however, couldn't help but wonder if it had all been predestined, if a tender word from Buck, or a
look of genuine affec tion in his m urky eyes, could have stayed her trigger finger an d so sa ved both their lives. T his
one-night stand would give them an opportunity to test history. Invisible, inaudible, they would follow the same
route as they had three decades ago. The next few hours would tell if that route had led inevitably to murder.
Room S even was occup ied, and so was the ro om b eside it. The interconnecting do or was wide, and fluo rescent lights
burned in both. The occupa ncy was not a problem. Sadie had long become used to the ethereal state; to wandering
unseen amo ng the living. In such a condition she had attended her niec e's wedd ing, and later on her father's funeral,
standing beside the grave with the dead old m an and gossip ing about the mourners. B uck ho wever-never an agile
individual-was more prone to carelessness. She hoped he would be careful tonight. After all, he wanted to see the
experiment through as much as she did.
As they stood on the threshold and cast their eyes around the room in which their fatal farce had been played out, she
wondered if the shot had hurt him very much. She must ask him tonight, she thought, should the opportunity arise.
TH ER E had been a young wo man with a plain but pleasant face in the mana ger's office when E arl had gone in to
book the rooms. She had now disappeared to be replaced by a man of sixty or so, wearing half a week's growth of
mottled beard and a sweat-stained shirt. He looked up from a nose-close perusal of yesterday's Pampa Daily News
when Earl entered.

"Yeah?"
"Is it po ssible to get som e ice wa ter?" Earl inquired. T he ma n threw a hoarse yell ov er his sho ulder. "Laura M ay?
You in there?"
Through the doo rway behind came the din of the late-night movie-shots, screams, the roar of an escaped beast-and
then Laura May's response.
"What do you want, Pa?"
"T here's a m an wants roo m service," L aura M ay's father yelled back , not witho ut a trace of irony in his voice. "W ill
you get out here and serve him?"
No reply came; just more screams. They set Earl's teeth on edge. The manager glanced up at him. One of his eyes
was clo uded by a cataract.
"You with the evangelist?" he said.
"Yes... how did you know it was-?"
"Laura M ay recognized him. Seen his picture in the paper.
"That so?"
"D on't miss a trick, my baby."
As if on cue Laura M ay emerged from the roo m be hind the office. W hen he r brown eyes fell on E arl she visibly
brightened.
"Oh..." she said, a smile quickening her features, "what can I do for you, mister?" The line, coupled with her smile,
seemed to signal more than polite interest in Earl; or was that just his wishful thinking? Except for a lady of the night
he'd met in Pomca City, Oklahoma, his sex life had been nonexistent in the last three months. Taking a chance, he
returned Laura May's smile. Though she was at least thirty-five, her manner was curiously girlish; the look she was
giving him almost intimidating direct. Meeting her eyes, Earl began to think that his first estimation had not been far
off.
"Ice water," he said. "I wo ndered if you had any? M rs. Gyer isn't feeling so w ell."
Laura May nodded. "I'll get some," she said, dallying for a moment in the door before returning into the television
room . The d in of the movie had abated -a scene of calm, p erhaps, before the beast em erged again-and in the hush
Earl could hear the rain beating down outside, turning the earth to mud.
"Q uite a gully washer tonight, eh?" the manager observed. "T his keep s up, you'll be rained out tomo rrow."
"Peop le com e out in all kinds of weather, " Earl said. "John G yer's a big d raw."
The man pulled a face. "W ouldn't rule out a tornado," he said, clearly reveling in the role of doo msayer. "W e're just
abo ut due for one."
"Really?"
"Y ear before last, wind to ok the roof off the school. Just lifted it right off."
Laura M ay reappeared in the doorwa y with a tray on which a jug and four glasses were placed. Ice clinked against
the jug's sides.
"What's that you say, Pa?" she asked.
"To rnado."
"Isn't hot enough," she announced with casual authority. Her father grunted his disagreement but made no argument
in return. Laura May crossed to ward Earl with the tray, but when he ma de a m ove to take it from her she said , "I'll
take it myself You lead on." He didn't object. It would give them a little while to exchange pleasantries as they
walked to the Gyers' room; perhaps the same thought was in her mind. Either that, or she wanted a closer view of the
evangelist.
They went together as far as the end of the office block walkway in silence. There they halted. Before them lay
twenty yards of p uddle-strewn earth b etween one building and the next.
"Shall I carry the jug? " Earl volunteered. "Y ou bring the glasses and the tray."
"Sure," she replied. Then, with the same direct look she'd given him before, she said, "What's your name?"
"Earl," he told her. "Earl Rayburn."
"I'm La ura M ay Cade."
"I'm most pleased to meet you, Laura M ay."
"Y ou know abou t this place , do yo u? she said. " Pap a told you, I sup pose."
"Y ou mean the tornad oes? " he asked. "No," she replied, "I mean murder."
SAD IE stood at the bottom o f the bed and lo oked at the wom an lying on it. She has very little dress-sense, Sad ie
thought; the clothes were drab, and her hair wasn't fixed in a flattering way. She murmured something in her semi
comatose state, and then-abruptly-she woke. Her eyes opened wide. T here was some unshaped alarm in them; and
pain too. Sadie looked at her and sighed.

"W hat's the pro blem ?" B uck wanted to kno w. He'd put d own the case s and was sitting in a chair o ppo site the fourth
occupant of the room, a large man with lean, forceful features and a mane of steel-gray hair that would not have
shamed an Old Testament prophet.
"No problem," Sadie replied.
"I don't want to share a room with these two," Buck said.
"Well this is the room where... where we stayed," Sadie replied.
"Let's move next door," Buck suggested, nodding through the open door into Room Eight. "We'll have more
privacy."
"They can't see us," Sadie said.
"But I can see them," Buck replied, "and it gives me the creeps. It's not going to matter if we're in a different room,
for Christ's sake." Without waiting for agreement from Sadie, Buck picked up the cases and carried them through
into Earl's room. "Are you coming or not?" he asked Sadie. She nodded . It was better to give way to him. If she
started to argue now they'd never get past the first hurdle. Conciliation was to be the keynote of this reunion, she
reminded herself, and dutifully followed him into Room Eight.
On the bed, Virginia thought about getting up and going into the bathroom where, out of sight, she could take one or
two tranquilizers. But John's presence frightened her. Sometimes she felt he could see right into her, that all her
private guilt was an open book to him. She was certain that if she got up now and rooted in her bag for the
medication, he would ask her what she was doing. If he did that, she'd blurt the truth out for sure. She didn't have the
strength to resist the heat of his accusing eyes. No, it would be better to lie here and wait for Earl to come b ack with
the water. Then, when the two m en were discussing the tour, she would slip away to take the forbid den pills.
There wa s an evasive q uality to the light in the room. It distressed her, and she wanted to close her lids ag ainst its
tricks. Only moments before, the light had conjured a mirage at the end of the bed; a moth-wing flicker of substance
that had almost congealed in the air before flitting away.
Over b y the window, Jo hn was again rea ding unde r his breath. At first, she caught only a few of the word s.
"And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth..." She instantly recognized the passage; its imagery was
unmistakable.
"...and unto them was given p ower, as the scorpions of the earth have p ower."
The verse was from The Revelations of St. John the Divine. She knew the words that followed by heart. He had
declaimed them time after time at meetings.
"And it was command ed them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any
tree; but only those men which have not the seal of G od in their forehead s."
Gyer loved Revelations. He read it more often than the Gospels, whose stories he knew by heart but whose words
did not ignite him the way the incantatory rhythms of Revelations did. W hen he preached Revelations, he shared the
apocalyptic vision and felt exulted by it. His voice would take on a different note. The poetry, instead of coming out
of him, came through him. H elpless in its grip, he rose o n a spiral of eve r more awe some metapho r: from a ngels to
dragons and thence to Babylon, the M other of Harlots, sitting upon a scarlet-colored beast.
Virginia tried to shut the words out. Usually, to hear her husband speak the poems of Revelations was a joy to her,
but not tonight. Tonight the words seemed ripe to the point of corruption, and she sensed-perhaps for the first timethat he didn't really understand what he was saying; that the spirit of the words passed him by while he recited them.
She made a small, unintentional noise of complaint. Gyer stopped reading.
"What is it?" he said.
She opened her eyes, embarrassed to have interrupted him.
"Nothing," she said.
"D oes my reading disturb you?" he wanted to know . The inquiry was a challenge, and she ba cked dow n from it.
"N o," she said. " No , of course not."
In the doorway between the two rooms, Sadie watched Virginia's face. The woman was lying of course, the words
did disturb her. They disturbed Sadie too, but only because they seemed so pitifully melodramatic: a drug-dream of
Armagedd on, more comical than intimidating.
"T ell him," she ad vised Virginia. "G o on. Tell him you don't like it."
"W ho are you talking to?" B uck said. "They can't hear you.
Sadie ignored her husb and's remarks. "G o on," she sa id to V irginia. "T ell the ba stard."
But Virginia lust lay there while Gyer took up the passage again, its absurdities escalating.
"And the shapes of the locusts were unto horses prepared unto battle; and on their heads were as it were crowns like
gold, and the ir faces were as the faces of men."
"And they had hair as the hair of wome n, and their teeth were as the teeth of lions."
Sadie shook her head: comic-book terrors, fit to scare children with. Why did people have to die to grow out of that

kind of nonsense?
"T ell him," she said again. " Tell him how ridicu lous he sound s."
Even as the words left her lips, Virginia sat up on the bed and said: "John?"
Sadie stared at her, willing her on. "Say it. Say it."
"D o you have to talk about death all the time. It's very depressing."
Sadie almost applauded. It wasn't quite the way she would have put it, but each to their own.
"What did you say?" Gyer asked her, assuming he'd heard incorrectly. Surely she wasn't challenging him?
Virginia put a trembling hand up to her lips, as if to cancel the words before they came again, but they came
nevertheless.
"T hose passages you read . I hate them. T hey're so..."
"Stupid," Sadie prompted.
unpleasant," Virginia said.
"Are you coming to bed or not?" Buck wanted to know.
"In a mom ent," S adie replied over her sho ulder. "I just want to see what happ ens in here."
"Life isn't a soap opera," Buck chimed in. Sadie was about to beg to differ, but before she had a chance the
evangelist had approached Virginia's bed, Bible in hand.
"This is the inspired word of the Lord, Virginia," he said.
"I know John. But there are other passages
"I thought you liked the Ap ocalypse."
"N o," she said, " it distresses me."
"You're tired," he replied.
"Oh yes," Sadie interjected, "that's what they always tell you when you get too close to the truth. 'You're tired,' they
say, 'why don't you take a little nap?"'
"W hy don't you sleep for a while?" Gyer said. "I'll go next door and w ork."
Virginia met her husband's condescending look for fully five seconds, then nodded.
"Y es," she con ceded, "I am tired."
"Foolish woman," Sad ie told her. "Fight back, or he'll do the same again. Give them an inch and they take half the
dam n state."
Buck appeared behind Sadie. "I've asked you once," he said, taking her arm, "we re here to make friends. So let's get
to it. He pulled her away from the door, rather more roughly than was necessary. She shrugged off his hand.
"There's no need for violence, Buck," she said.
"Ha! That's rich, coming from you," Buck said with a humorless laugh. "You want to see violence?" Sadie turned
away fro m V irginia to lo ok at her husb and. "T his is violence," he said. H e had taken o ff his jacket; now he pulled his
unbu ttoned shirt open to re veal the shot wo und. A t such clo se quarters Sadie's .38 had m ade a sizeable ho le in
Buck's chest, scorched and blood y. It was as fresh as the moment he died. He put his finger to it as if indicating the
Sacred H eart. "Y ou see that, sweetheart mine? Yo u mad e that."
She peered at the hole with no little interest. It certainly was a permanent mark; about the only one she'd ever made
on the man, she suspected.
"You cheated from the beginning, didn't you?" she said.
"We're not talking about cheating, we're talking about shooting," Buck returned.
"Seems to me one sub ject leads to the other," Sadie replied. "A nd back again."
Buck narrowed his already narrow eyes at her. Dozens of women had found that look irresistible, to judge by the
numbers of anonymous mourners at his funeral. "All right," he said, "I had women. So what?"
"So I shot you for it," Sadie replied flatly. That was about all she had to say on the subject. It had made for a short
trial.
"W ell at least tell me you're so rry," B uck burst out.
Sadie considered the p roposition for a few mom ents and said: "But I'm not!" S he realized the respo nse lacked tact,
but it was the unavoidable truth. Eve n as they'd stra ppe d her into the electric ch air, with the p riest do ing his be st to
console he r lawyer, she had n't regretted the way things had turned out.
"This whole thing is useless," Buck said. "W e came here to make peace and you can't even say you're sorry. You're a
sick wo man, you know that? You always were. Yo u pried into my b usiness, yo u snoo ped around behind my back-"
"I did not snoop," S adie replied firmly "Y our d irt came and fo und m e."
"Dirt?"
"O h yes, Buck, dirt. It always wa s with you. Furtive and sw eaty."
He grabbed hold of her. "Take that back!" he demanded.
"Y ou used to frighten me once ," she replied coolly. "But then I b ought a gun."

He thrust her away from him. "All right," he said, "don't say I didn't try. I wanted to see if we could forgive and
forget, I really did. But you're not willing to give an inch, are you?" He fingered his wound as he spoke, his voice
softening. "W e could have had a good time here tonight, babe," he murmured. "Just you and me. I could have given
you a bit of the old jazz, you know what I mean? Time was, you wouldn't have said no.
She sighed softly. W hat he sa id was true. T ime wa s she wo uld have taken what little he gave her and counted herself
a blessed woman. But times had changed.
"Come on, babe. Loo sen up ," he said smo kily, and b egan to unb utton his sh irt completely, pulling it out o f his
trousers. His belly was bald as a baby's. "What say we forget what you said and lie down and talk?"
She was about to reply to his suggestion when the door of Roo m Seven opene d and in came the man with the soulful
eyes accom panied by a wom an whose fac e rang a bell in S adie's memo ry.
"Ice water," Earl sa id. Sad ie watch ed him move acro ss the room. T here'd not been a m an as fine as that in W ichita
Falls; not that she could remember anyway. He almost made her want to live again.
"Are you going to get undressed?" Buck asked from the room behind her.
"In a minute, Buc k. W e've got all night, for C hrist's sake."
"I'm Laura May Cade," the woman with the familiar face said as she set the ice water down on the table.
Of course, thought Sadie, you're little Laura May. The girl had been five or six when Sadie was last here; an odd,
secretive child, full of sly looks. The interve ning years had matured he r physically, but the strangeness wa s still in
evidence in her slightly off-center features. Sad ie turned to B uck, who wa s sitting on the bed untying his shoes.
"Remember the little girl?" she said. "The one who you gave a quarter to, just to make her go away?"
"What about her?"
"She's here."
"That so?" he replied, clearly uninterested.
Laura May had poured the water and was now taking the glass across to Virginia.
"It's real nice having you fo lks here," she sa id. "W e don't get much happening here. Just the o ccasio nal tornado ..."
Gyer nod de d to E arl, who prod uced a five-do llar bill and gave it to Laura M ay. She thanked him, sa ying it wasn't
necessary, then took the bill. She wasn't to be bribed into leaving, however.
"This kind of weather makes people feel real peculiar," she went on.
Earl could predict what subject was hovering behind Laura May's lips. He'd already heard the bones of the story on
the way across, and knew Virginia was in no mood to hear such a tale.
"Thank you for the water-" he said, putting a hand on Laura M ay's arm to usher her through the door. But G yer cut
in.
"My wife's been suffering from heat exhaustion," he said. "You should be careful, ma'am," Laura May advised
Virginia, "peop le do some mighty weird things-"
"Like what?" Virginia asked.
"1 don't think we-" Earl began, but before he could say "want to hear," Laura May casually replied:
"O h, murder m ostly."
Virginia looked up from the glass of ice water in which her focus had been immersed.
"Murder?" she said.
"H ear that?" sa id Sadie, proud ly. "She remembe rs."
"In this very roo m," L aura M ay managed to b lurt befo re Ea rl forcibly escorted her out.
"W ait," V irginia said as the two figures disapp eared through the door. "Ea rl! I want to hear what hap pened."
"No you don't," Gyer told her.
"O h yes she doe s," said Sadie very quietly, studying the look on Virginia's face. "You'd really like to know, wo uldn 't
you, Ginnie?"
For a mom ent pregnant with possibilities, Virginia looked away from the outside door and stared straight through
into Room Eight, her eyes seeming to rest on Sadie. The look was so direct it could almost have been one of
recognition. The ice in her glass tinkled. She frowned.
"W hat's wrong?" G yer asked her.
Virginia shook her head.
"I asked you what was wrong," Gyer insisted.
Virginia put down her glass on the bedside table. After a moment she said very simply: "There's somebody here,
John."
"What do you mean?"
"T here's someb ody in the roo m with us. I heard voices before. Raised vo ices."
"Next door," Gyer said.
"No, from Earl's room.

"It's emp ty. It must hav e bee n next d oor."
Virginia was not to be silenced with logic. "I heard voices, I tell you. And I saw something at the end of the bed.
Som ething in the air."
"O h my Jesus," said Sadie, under her bre ath. "T he godda mn woma n's psychic."
Buck stood up. He was naked now but for his shorts. He wandered over to the interconnecting door to look at
Virginia with new appreciation.
"Are you sure?" he said.
"Hush," Sadie told him, mov ing out of Virginia's line of vision. She said she co uld see us.
"Y ou're not well, Virginia," G yer was saying in the next room. " It's those pills he fed yo u..
"No," Virginia replied, her voice rising. "When will you stop talking about the pills? They were just to calm me
dow n, help me slee p."
She certainly wasn't calm now, thought Buck. He liked the way she trembled as she tried to hold back her tears. She
looked in need of some of the old jazz, did poor Virginia. Now that would help her sleep.
"I tell you I can see things," she was telling her husband.
"That I can't?" Gyer replied incredulously. "Is that what you're saying? That you can see visions the rest of us are
blind to?"
"I'm not proud of it, damn you," she yelled at him, incensed by this inversion.
"Come away, B uck," Sadie said. " W e're upse tting her. She kno ws we're here."
"So what? " B uck responded. "H er prick of a husband do esn't believe her. Look at him. H e thinks she's crazy."
"Well we'll make her crazy if we parade around," said Sadie. "At least let's keep our voices down, huh?"
Buck loo ked around at S adie and offered up a dirty rag of a smile. "W ant to m ake it wo rth my while?" he said
sleazily. "I'll keep out of the way if you and me can ha ve some fun."
Sadie hesitated a moment before replying. It was probably perverse to reject Buck's advances. The man was an
emotional infant and always had been. Sex was one of the few ways he could express himself. "All right, Buck," she
said, "just let me freshen up and fix my hair."
An uneasy truce had apparently been declared in Room Seven.
"I'm going to take a shower, Virginia," Gyer said. "I suggest you lie down and stop making a fool of yourself. You
go talking like that in front of people and you'll jeopardize the crusade, you hear me?"
Virginia looked at her husband with clearer sight than she'd ever enjoyed before. "Oh yes," she said, without a trace
of feeling in her vo ice, "I hear you."
He seemed satisfied. He slipped off his jacket and went into the bathroom, taking his Bible with him. She heard the
doo r lock, and then exhaled a long, queasy sigh. Th ere would be recriminations aplenty for the exchange they'd just
had. He would squeeze every last drop of contrition from her in the days to come. She glanced around at the
interconnecting d oor. T here was no longer any sign of those sha dows in the air; not the least whisper of lost voices.
Perhaps, just perhaps, she had imagined it. She opened her bag and rummaged for the bottles of pills hidden there.
One eye on the bathroom do or, she selected a cocktail of three varieties and downed them with a gulp of ice water.
In fact, the ice in the jug had long sinc e melted. T he water she drank d own was tep id, like the rain that fell
relentlessly outside. By morning, perhaps the whole world would have been washed away. If it had, she mused, she
wouldn't grieve.
"I asked you not to mentio n the killing," Earl to ld Laura M ay. "M rs. Gyer can't take that kind of talk."
"Peop le are getting killed all the time," Laura M ay replied, unfazed. "Ca n't go around w ith her head in a bucket."
Earl said nothing. They had just gotten to the end of the walkway. The return sprint across the lot to the other
building was ahead. Laura May turned to face him. She was several inches' the shorter of the two. Her eyes, turned
up to his, were large and luminous. Angry as he was, he couldn't help but notice how full her mouth was, how her
lips glistened.
"I'm sorry," she said, "I didn't mean to get you into trouble."
"Sure I kno w. I'm lust edgy."
"It's the heat," she returned. "Like I said, puts thoughts into people's heads. You know ." Her look wavered for a
mo me nt; a hint of uncertainty crossed her fa ce. Earl could feel the back of his neck tingle. This was his cue, wasn't
it? She'd offered it unequivocally. But the words failed him. Finally, it was she who said: "Do you have to go back
there right now?"
He swallowed; his throat was dry. "Don't see why," he said. "I mean, I don't want to get between them when they're
having word s with eac h other."
"Bad blood?" she asked.
"I think so. I'm be st leaving them to sort it out in p eace. They don't want me."

Laura May looked down from Earl's face. "Well I do," she breathed, the words scarcely audible above the thump of
the rain.
He put a cautious hand to her face and touched the down of her cheek. She trembled, ever so slightly. Then he bent
his head to kiss her. She let him brush her lips with his.
"W hy don't we go to my room? " she said against his mouth. " I don't like it out here ."
"What about your Papa?"
"H e'll be dead drunk, b y now. It's the same ro utine every night. Just take it quietly. He 'll never kno w."
Earl wasn't very ha ppy w ith this game plan. It was more tha n his job was wo rth to be found in be d with Laura M ay.
He was a married man, even if he hadn't seen Barbara in three months. Laura May sensed his trepidation.
"Don't come if you don't want to," she said.
"It's not that," he replied.
As he looked dow n at her she licked her lips. It was a completely unconscious motion, he felt sure, but it was enough
to decide him. In a sense, though he couldn't know it at the time, all that lay ahead-the farce, the bloodletting, the
inevitable tragedy-pivoted on Laura May wetting her lower lip with such casual sensuality. "Ah shit," he said,
"you're too much, you know that?"
He bent to her and kissed her again, while somewhere over toward Skellytown the clouds gave out a loud roll of
thunder, like a circus drummer b efore som e particularly elabora te acroba tics.
IN Roo m S even Virginia was having bad d ream s. T he pills had not secured her a safe harbo r in sleep . In ste ad she'd
been pitched into a howling tempest. In her dreams she was clinging to a crippled tree-a pitiful anchor in such a
maelstrom-while the wind threw cattle and automobiles into the air, sucking half the world up into the pitch black
clouds that boiled
above her head. Just as she thought she must die here, utterly alone, she saw two figures a few yards from her,
appearing and disappearing in the blinding veils of dust the wind was stirring up. She couldn't see their faces, so she
called to them.
"Who are you?"
Next door, Sadie heard V irginia talking in her sleep. What was the woman dreaming about? she wond ered. She
fought the temptation to go next door and whisper in the dreamer's ear, however.
Behind V irginia's eyelids the dream raged on. T hough she called to the strang ers in the sto rm they seemed no t to
hear her. Rather than be left alone, she forsook the comfort of the tree-which was instantly uprooted and whirled
away-and battled through the biting dust to where the strangers stood. As she approached, a sudden lull in the wind
revea led them to her. One was male, the other female; both were armed. As she called to them to make herself
known they attacked each other, opening fatal wounds in neck and torso.
"Murder!" she shouted as the wind spattered her face with the antagonists' blood. "For God's sake, somebody stop
them! M urder!"
And suddenly she was awake, her heart beating fit to burst. The dream still flitted behind her eyes. She shook her
head to rid herself of the horrid images, then moved groggily to the edge of the bed and stood up. H er head felt so
light it might float off like a balloon. She needed some fresh air. Seldom in her life had she felt so strange. It was as
though she wa s losing her slender grip 6n what was real; as though the solid wo rld were slipping thro ugh her fingers.
She crossed to the outside door. In the bathroom she could hear John speaking aloud-addressing the mirror, no
doubt, to refine every detail of his delivery. She stepped out onto the walkway. There was some refreshment to be
had out here, but precious little. In one of the rooms at the end of the block a child was crying. As she listened a
sharp voice silenced it. For maybe ten seconds the voice was hushed. Then it began again in a higher key. Go on, she
told the child, you cry; there's plenty of reason. She trusted unhappiness in people. M ore and more it was all she
trusted. Sadness was so much more honest than the artificial bonhomie that was all the style these days: that facade
of empty-headed optim ism that was plastered over the despair tha t everyone felt in their heart of hearts. T he child
was expressing that wise panic now, as it cried in the night. She silently ap plaud ed its ho nesty.
IN the bathroom, John Gyer tired of the sight of his own face in the mirror and gave some time over to thought. He
put down the toilet lid and sat in silence for several minutes. He could smell his own stale sweat. He needed a
shower, and then a good night's sleep. Tomorrow: Pam pa. Meetings, speeches; thousands of hands to be shaken and
blessing s to be bestowed. Som etimes he felt so tired, and then he'd get to wo ndering if the Lo rd co uldn't lighten his
burden a little. But that was the Devil talking in his ear, wasn't it? He knew better than to pay that scurrilous voice
much attention. If you listened once, the doubts would get a hold, the way they had of Virginia. Somewhere along
the road, while his back had been turned about the Lord's business, she'd lost her way, and the Old One had found
her wandering. He, John Gyer, would have to bring her back to the path of the righteous; make her see the danger

her soul was in. There would be tears and complaints; maybe she would be bruised a little. But bruises healed.
He put down his Bible and went dow n on his knees in the narrow space between the bath and the towel rack and
began to p ray. He tried to find som e ben ign words, a gentle prayer to ask for the strength to finish his task, and to
bring Virginia back to her senses. But mildness had deserted him. It was the vocabulary of Revelations that came
back to his lips, unbidden. He Jet the words spill out, even though the fever in him burned brighter with every
syllable he spoke.
"WH AT do you think?" Laura May had asked Earl as she escorted him into her bedroom. Earl was too startled by
what was in front of him to offer any coherent reply. The bed room was a mausoleum, founded, it seemed, in the
name of Trivia. Laid out on the shelves, hung on the walls and covering much of the floor were items that might
have been picked out of any garbage can: empty Coke cans, collections of ticket stubs, coverless and defaced
magazines, vandalized toys, shattered mirrors, postcards never sent, letters never read-a limping parade of the
forgo tten and the forsaken. H is eye pa ssed b ack arid forth over the elab orate display and fo und not one item o f worth
among the junk and bric-a-brac. Yet all this inconsequential had been arranged with meticulous care so that no one
piece masked an other. And-now that he looked mo re closely-he saw that every item w as num bered, as if eac h had its
place in some system of junk. The thought that this was all Laura May's doing shrank Earl's stomach. The woman
was clearly verging on lunacy.
"This is my collection," she told him.
"So I see," he replied.
"I've been collecting since I was six." She crossed the room to the dressing table, where most women Earl had
known would have arranged their toiletries. But here were arrayed more of the same inane exhibits. "Everybody
leaves something behind, you know," Laura M ay said to Earl, picking up some piece of dreck with all the care others
might bestow on a precious stone and examining it before placing it back in its elected position.
"Is that so?" Earl said.
"O h yeah. E veryone. Even if it's only a dead match or a tissue with lipstick on it. W e used to have a M exican girl,
Ophelia, who cleaned the rooms when I was a child. It started as a game with her, really. She'd always bring me
something belonging to the guests who'd left. When she died I took over collecting stuff for myself, always keeping
something. A s a memento."
Earl began to grasp the absurd poetry of the museum. In Laura May's neat body was all the ambition of a great
curato r. No t for her m ere art. She was collecting keepsakes of a more intimate nature , forgotten signs o f people
who'd passed this way, and who, most likely, she would never see again.
"You've got it all marked," he observed.
"Oh yes," she replied, "it wouldn't be much use if I didn't know who it all belonged to, would it?"
Earl supposed not. "Incredible," he murmured quite genuinely. She smiled at him. He suspected she didn't show her
collection to m any pe ople. He felt odd ly hono red to be viewing it.
"I've got some really prize things," she said, opening the middle drawer of the dressing table, "stuff I don't put on
display."
"Oh?" he said.
The drawer she'd opened was lined with tissue paper, which rustled as she brought forth a selection of special
acquisitions. A soiled tissue found beneath the bed of a Hollywood star who had tragically died six weeks after
staying at the motel. A heroin needle carelessly left by X; an empty book of matches, which she had traced to a
homosexual bar in Amarillo, discarded by Y The names she mentioned meant little or nothing to Earl, but he played
the game as he felt she wanted it played, mingling exclamations of disbelief with gentle laughter. Her pleasure, fed
by his, grew. She took him through all the exhibits in the dressing-table drawer, offering some anecdote or
biographical insight with every one.
W hen she had finished, she said: " I wasn't quite telling you the truth before, when I said it began as a gam e with
Op helia. T hat really came later."
"So what started you off?" he asked.
She went down on her haunches and unlocked the bottom d rawer of the dressing table with a key on a chain around
her neck. There was only one artifact in this drawer. This she lifted out almost reverentially and stood up to show
him.
"What's this?"
"Y ou asked me what started the collection," she said . "T his is it. I found it, and I never gave it back. Y ou ca n look if
you wa nt."
She extended the prize toward him, and he unfolded the pressed white cloth the object had been wrapped up in. It
was a gun. A S mith and W esson .38, in pristine condition. It took him o nly a mome nt to realize which mo tel guest

this piece of history had once belonged to.
"The gun that Sadie Durning used..." he said, picking it up. "Am I right?"
She beamed . "I found it in the scrub behind the motel, before the police got to searching for it. There was such a
com motio n, you know, nobody lo oked twice at me. A nd of course they didn't try and look for it in the light."
"Why was that?"
"The '55 tornado hit, just the day after. Took the motel roof right off; blew the school away. People were killed that
year. W e had funerals for wee ks."
"They didn't question you at all?"
"I was a good liar," she replied, with no small satisfaction.
"And you never owned up to having it? All these years?"
She looked faintly contemptuous of the suggestion. "They might have taken it off me," she said.
"B ut it's evidenc e."
"T hey executed her anyway, didn't they?" she replied. "S ad ie admitted to it all, right fro m the beginning. It w ouldn't
have mad e any difference if they'd found the murder weap on or not."
Earl turned the gun over in his hand . There wa s encrusted dirt on it.
"T hat's bloo d," L aura M ay inform ed him . "It was still wet when I found it. She must have touched B uck's bo dy to
make sure he was d ead. Only used two bullets. The rest are still in there."
Earl had never much liked weapons since his brother-in-law had blown off three of his toes in an accident. The
thought that the .38 was still loaded m ade him yet more apprehensive. He put it back in its wrapping and folded the
cloth o ver it.
"I've never seen anything like this place," he said as Laura May kneeled to return the gun to the drawer. "You're
quite a woman, you know that?"
She looked up at him. Her hand slowly slid up the front of his trousers.
"I'm glad you like what you see," she said.
"SADIE...? Are you coming to bed or not?"
"I just want to finish fixing my hair."
"Y ou're not playing fair. Forget your hair and com e ove r here."
"In a minute."
"Shit!"
"You're in no hurry, are you, Buck? I mean, you're not going anywhere?"
She caught his reflection in the mirror. He gave her a sour glance.
"You think it's funny, don't you?" he said.
"Think what's funny?"
"W hat hap pened. M e getting shot. Y ou getting the chair. It gives yo u som e perverse satisfaction ."
She thought about this for a few moments. It was the first time Buck had shown any real desire to talk seriously. She
wanted to answer with the truth.
"Y es," she said, when she was certain that was the answer. "Yes, I suppose it did p lease m e, in an o dd so rt of way."
"1 knew it," said Buck.
"K eep your vo ice do wn," S adie sn app ed, "she'll hear us."
"She's gone outside. I heard her. And don't change the subject." He rolled over and sat on the edge of the bed. The
wound did loo k painful, Sadie thought.
"Did it hurt much?" she asked, turning to him.
"Are you kidding?" he said, displaying the hole for her. "What does it fucking look like?"
"I thought it would be quick. l never wanted you to suffer."
"Is that right?" Buck said.
"Of course. I loved you once, Buck. I really did. You know what the headline was the day after?"
"No," Buck replied, "I was otherwise engaged, remember?"
"'MOTEL BEC OM ES SLAUGHT ERHOU SE OF LOVE ,' it said. There were pictures of the room, of the blood on
the floor, and you being carried o ut under a sheet."
"M y finest hour," he said bitterly. "An d I do n't even get my face in the press."
"I'll never forget the phrase. 'Slaughterhouse of Love !' I thought it was romantic. D on't you? " B uck grunted in
disgust. Sadie went on anyway. "I got three hundred proposals of marriage while I was waiting for the chair, did I
ever tell you that?"
"O h yeah? " B uck said. "D id they come and visit you? Give you a b it of the old jazz to keep your m ind off the big
day?"

"N o," said Sadie frostily.
"Y ou co uld have had a time o f it. I would have."
"I'm sure you would," she replied.
"Just thinking about it's getting me cooking, Sadie. Why don't you come and get it while it's hot?"
"W e cam e here to talk, B uck."
"W e talked , for Christ's sake," he said. " I don't want to talk no more. N ow come here. Y ou promised." He rubb ed his
abd ome n and gave her a cro oked smile. "So rry abo ut the blo od and all, but I ain't respo nsible fo r that."
Sadie stood up.
"Now you're being sensible," he said.
As Sadie Durning crossed to the bed, Virginia came in out of the rain. It had cooled her face somewhat, and the
tranquilizers she'd taken were fina lly beginning to so othe her system. In the bathroom, John w as still praying, his
vo ice rising and falling. She crossed to the tab le and glanced at his notes, but the tightly p acked w ords wo uldn't
come into focus. She picked up the papers to peer more closely at them. As she did so she heard a groan from the
next room. She froze. The groan came again, louder. The papers trembled in her hands. She made to put them back
on the table but the voice came a third time, and this time the papers slipped from her hand.
"Give a little, damn you..." the voice said. The words, though blurred, were unmistakable; more grunts followed.
Virginia moved toward the door between the rooms, the trembling spreading up from her hands to the rest of her
body. "Play the game, will you?" the voice came again; there was anger in it. Cautiously, Virginia looked through
into Room Eight, holding onto the door lintel for support. There was a shadow on the bed. It writhed distressingly, as
if attempting to devour itself. She stood, rooted to the spot, trying to stifle a cry while more sounds rose from the
shadow Not o ne voice this time, but two. T he word s were jumb led. In her growing panic she co uld make little sense
of them. She couldn't turn her back on the scene, however. She stared on, trying to make some sense of the shifting
configuration. Now a smattering of words came clear, and with them, a recognition of the event on the bed. She
heard a woman's voice protesting. Now she even began to see the speaker, struggling beneath a partner who was
attemp ting to arrest her flailing arms. Her first instinct about the scene had b een correct: it was a devouring, of a
kind.
Sadie looked up into Buck's face. That bastard grin of his had returned; it made her trigger finger itch. This is what
he'd come for tonight. Not for conversation about failed dreams, but to humiliate her the way he had so often in the
past, whispering obscenities into her neck while he pinned her to the sheets. The pleasure he took in her discomfort
made her seethe.
"Let go of me!" she shouted, louder than she'd intended.
At the d oor, Virginia said: " Let her alone ."
"We've got an audience," Buck Durning grinned, pleased by the appalled look on Virginia's face. Sadie took
advantage of his diverted attention. She slipped her arm from his grasp and pushed him off her. He rolled off the
narro w bed with a yell. As she stood up, she looked around at the ashen wo man in the do orwa y. How much co uld
Virginia see or hear? Enough to know who they were?
Buck was climbing over the b ed toward his sometime m urderer. "C ome on," he said. "It's only the crazy lad y."
"Keep away from me," Sadie warned.
"Yo u can't harm me now, woman. I'm already dead, remember." His exertions had opened the gunshot wound. The re
was blood smeared all over him; over her too, now she saw. She backed toward the door. There was nothing to be
salvaged he re. W hat little chance o f reconciliation there ha d been had dege nerated into a bloo dy farce. The only
solution to the whole sorry mess was to get out and leave poor Virginia to make what sense of it she could. The
longer she stayed to fight with Buck, the worse the situation would become for all three of them.
"Where are you going?" Buck demanded.
"Out," she responded. "Away from you. I said I loved you, Buck, didn't I? Well... maybe I did. But I'm cured now.
"B itch!"
"G ood bye B uck. H ave a nice eternity."
"W orthless bitch!"
She d idn't reply to his insults. She simp ly walked through the door and o ut into the night.
Virginia watched the shad ow p ass through the closed doo r and held o n to the tattered remains of her sanity with
white-knuckled fists. She had to put these apparitions out of her head as quickly as possible or she knew she'd go
crazy. She turned her back on Room Eight. What she needed now was pills. She picked up her handbag, only to drop
it again as her shaking fingers rooted for the bottles, depositing the contents of the bag onto the floor. One of the
bottles, which she had failed to seal properly, spilled. A rainbow assortment of tablets rolled across the stained
carpet in every direction. She bent to pick them up. Tears had started to come, blinding her. She felt for the pills as
best she could, feeding half a handful into her mouth and trying to swallow them dry. The tattoo of the rain on the

roof sounded louder and louder in her head; a roll of thunder gave weight to the percussion.
And then, John's voice.
"What are you doing, Virginia?"
She looked up, tears in her eyes, a pill-laden hand hovering at her lips. She'd forgotten her husband entirely. The
shadows and the rain and the voices had driven all thought of him from her head. She let the pills drop back to the
carpet. Her limbs were shaking. She didn't have the strength to stand up.
"I... I. .. heard the voices again," she said.
His eyes had com e to rest on the sp illed co ntents of bag and bottle. Her crime was sp read for him to see q uite
plainly. It was useless to try and deny anything; it would only enrage him further.
"Woman," he said. "Haven't you learned your lesson?"
She d idn't reply. T hunder dro wned his next words. He repeated them, more lo udly.
"Where did you get the pills, Virginia?"
She sh ook her head weakly.
"Earl again, I suppose. Who else?"
"No," she murmured.
"Don't lie to me, Virginia!" He had raised his voice to com pete with the storm. "Y ou know the Lord hears your lies,
as I hear them. And you are judged, Virginia! Judged."'
"Please leave me be," she pleaded.
"Y ou're poisoning yourself."
"I need them, John," she told him. "I really do ." She had no energy to hold his bullying at bay; nor did she want him
to take the pills from her. But then what was the use of protesting? He would have his way, as always. It would be
wiser to give up the booty now and save herself unnecessary anguish.
"Lo ok at yo urself," he said, " groveling on the floo r."
"D on't start on me, Jo hn," she replied. "Y ou win. Take the p ills. Go o n! Ta ke them !"
He was clearly disappointed by her rapid capitulation, like an actor preparing for a favorite scene only to find the
curtain rung down prematurely. But he made the most of her invitation, upending her handbag on the bed, and
collecting the bottles.
"Is this all?" he demanded.
"Yes," she said.
"I wo n't be deceived, Virginia."
"T hat's all!" she shouted back at him . Then mo re softly: "I swear . . . that's all."
"Earl will be sorry. I promise you that. He's exploited your weak ness-"
"... no!"
"-your weak ness and your fear. T he ma n is in Satan's employ, that much is ap parent."
"Don't talk nonsense!" she said, surprising herself with her own vehemence. "I asked him to supply them." She got
to her feet with some d ifficulty. "He didn't want to defy you, John. It was me all along."
Gyer shook his head. "No, Virginia. You won't save him. Not this time. He's worked to subvert me all along. I see
that now. W orked to ha rm my crusad e throu gh you. W ell I'm wise to him no w. Oh yes. O h yes."
He suddenly turned and pitched the handful of bottles through the open door and into the rainy darkness outside.
Virginia watched them fly and felt her heart sink. There was precious little sanity to be had on a night like this-it was
a night for going crazy wasn't it? with the rain bruising your skull and murder in the air-and now the damn fool had
thrown away her last chance of equilibrium. He turned back to her, his prefect teeth bared.
"How many times do you have to be told?"
He was not to be denied his scene after all, it seemed.
"I'm no t listening!" sh e told him, clam ping her hands ov er her ears. E ven so she co uld hear the rain. "I wo n't listen!"
"I'm patient, Virginia," he said. "The Lord will have his judgment in the fullness of time. Now, where's Earl?"
She sh ook her head. T hunder cam e again; she wasn't sure if it was inside or o ut.
"Where is he?" he boomed at her. "Gone for more of the same filth?"
"N o!" she yelled back . "I do n't know where he's gone."
"Y ou pray, woman," Gyer said. "You get down on yo ur knees and thank the Lord I'm here to keep you from Satan."
Content that his words made a striking exit line, he headed out in search of Earl, leaving Virginia shaking but
curiously elated. He would be back, of course. There wo uld be more recriminations, and from her, the obligatory
tears. As to Earl, he would have to defend himself as best he could. She slumped down on the bed, and her bleary
eyes came to rest on the tablets that were still scattered across the floor. All was not quite lost. There were no more
than two dozen, so she would have to be sparing in her use of them, but they were better than nothing at all. Wiping
her eyes with the back of her hands, she kneeled down again to gather the pills up. As she did so she realized that

someone had their eyes on her. No t the evangelist, ba ck so soon ? She looked up. T he do or out to the ra in was still
wide open, but he wasn't standing there. Her heart seemed to lose its rhythm for a moment as she remembered the
shadows in the roo m nex t doo r. There had been two. One had d eparted; but the other...?
Her eyes slid across to the interconnecting door. It was there, a greasy smudge that had taken on a new solidity since
last she'd set eyes on it. Was it that the apparition was gaining coherence, or that she was seeing it in more detail? It
was quite clearly human; and just as apparently male. It was staring at her, she had no doubt of that. She could even
see its eyes, when she concentrated. H er tenuous grasp of its existence was impro ving. It was gaining fresh
resolution with every trembling breath she took.
She sto od up, very slowly. It too k a step through the interconnecting doo r. She m oved toward the outside door, and it
matched her move with one of its own, sliding with eerie speed between her and the night. Her outstretched arm
brushed against its smoky form and, as if illuminated by a lightning flash, an entire portrait of her accoster sprang
into view in front of her, only to disappear as she withdrew her hand. She had glimpsed enough to appall her
however. The vision was that of a dead man; his chest had been blown open. W as this more of her dream, spilling
into the living world? She thought of calling after John, to summon him back, but that meant approaching the door
again, and risking contact with the app arition. Instead she too k a cau tious step back ward , reciting a prayer beneath
her breath as she did so. P erhap s John had been corre ct all along. Perhaps she had invited this lunacy to herself with
the very tablets she was even now treading to powder underfoot. The apparition closed in on her. Was it her
imagination, or had it opened its arms, as if to embrace her?
Her heel caught on the skirt of the coverlet. Before she could stop herself she was toppling backward. Her arms
flailed, see king sup port. Again she made contact with the d ream -thing; again the whole ho rrid picture appe ared in
front of her. But this time it didn't disap pear, because the apparition had snatched at her hand and w as grasping it
tight. Her fingers felt as though they'd been plunged into ice water. She yelled for it to let her be, flinging up her free
arm to push her assailant away, but it simply grasped her other hand too.
Unable to resist, she met its gaze. They were not the Devil's eyes that looked at her-they were slightly stupid, even
comical, eyes-and below them a weak mouth which only reinforced her impression of witlessness. Suddenly she was
not afraid. This was no demon. It was a delusion, brought on by exhaustion and pills; it could do her no harm. The
only danger here was that she hurt herself in he r attemp ts to keep the hallucinations at bay.
Buck sensed tha t Virginia was losing the will to resist. "T hat's better," he coaxed her. "Y ou just want a b it of the old
jazz, don't you, Ginnie?"
He wasn't certain if she heard him, but no matter. He could readily make his intentions apparent. Dropping one of
her hands, he ran his palm across her breasts. She sighed, a bewildered expression in her beautiful eyes, but she
made no effort to resist his attentions.
"Y ou don't exist," she told him plainly. "Y ou're only in my mind, like John sa id. The pills m ade you. T he pills did it
all."
Buck let the w oma n bab ble; Le t her think whatev er she p leased , as long as it mad e her comp liant.
"That's right, isn't it?" she said. "You're not real, are you?"
He obliged her with a polite reply. "Certainly," he said, squeezing her "I'm just a dream, that's all." The answer
seemed to satisfy her. "No need to fight me , is there?" he sa id. "I'll have com e and gone before you know it."
TH E manager's office lay empty. From the room beyond it Gyer heard a television. It stood to reason that Earl must
be so mewhere in the vicinity. H e bad left their roo m with the girl who'd brought the ice water, and they certainly
wouldn't be taking a wa lk together in weather like this. The thunder had moved in closer in the last few minutes.
Now it was almost overhead. Gyer enjoyed the noise and the spectacle of the lightning. It fueled his sense of
occasion.
"Earl!" he yelled, making his way through the office and into the room with the television. The late movie was
nearing its climax, the sound turned up deafeningly loud. A fantastical b east of so me kind was treading T okyo to
rubble; citizens fled, screaming. Asleep in a chair in front of this papier-mch apocalypse was a late middle-aged
man. Neither the thunder nor Gyer's calls had stirred him. A tumbler of spirits, nursed in his lap, had slipped from
his hand and stained his trousers. The whole scene stank of bourbon and d epravity. Gyer made a note of it for future
use in the pulpit.
A chill blew in from the office. Gyer turned, expecting a visitor, but there was nobody in the office behind him. He
stared into space. All the way across here he'd had a sense of being followed, yet there was nobody on his heels. He
canceled his suspicions. Fears like this were for women and old men afraid of the dark. He stepped between the
sleeping drunkard and the ruin of Tokyo toward the closed door beyond.
"Earl?" he called out, "answer me!"
Sadie watched Gyer open the door and step into the kitchen. His bombast amazed her. She'd expected his subspecies

to be extinct by now. Could such melodrama be credible in this sophisticated age? She'd never much liked church
people, but this example was particularly offensive; there was more than a whiff of malice beneath the flatulence. He
was riled and unpredictab le, and he wo uld no t be pleased by the scene that awaited him in Laura M ay's room . Sadie
had already been there. She had watched the lovers for a little while, until their passion became too m uch for her and
had d riven her out to cool herself by watching the rain. Now the evangelist's app earance drew her back the way she'd
come, fearful that what-ever was now in the air, the night's events could not end well. In the kitchen, Gyer was
shouting again. He clearly enjoyed the sound of his own voice.
"Earl! Yo u bea r me? I'm not to be cheated !"
In Laura M ay's room Ea rl was attempting to pe rform three acts at the same time. One , kiss the woman he had just
made love with; two, pull on his dam p trousers; and three, invent an adeq uate excuse to o ffer Gyer if the evangelist
reach ed the bedroom do or before some illusion o f innoce nce ha d been created. A s it was, he had no time to comp lete
any of the tasks. His tongue was still locked in Laura May's tender mouth when the lock on the door was forced.
"Fo und yo u!"
Earl broke his kiss and turned toward the messianic voice. Gyer was standing in the doorway, rain-plastered hair a
gray skull cap, his face bright with fury. The light thrown up on him from the silk-draped lamp beside the bed made
him look massive. The glint in his come-to-the-Lord eyes was verging on the manic. Earl had heard tell of the great
man's righteous wrath from V irginia; furniture had been trashed in the past, and bones broken.
"Is there no end to your iniq uity?" he demanded to kno w, the wo rds co ming with unnerving ca lm from betwe en his
narrow lips. Earl hoisted his trousers up, fumbling for the zipper.
"This isn't your business..." he began, but Gyer's fury powdered the words on his tongue.
Laura M ay was not so easily cowed. "Yo u get out," she said, pulling a sheet up to cover her generous breasts. Earl
glanced around at her; at the smooth shoulders he'd all too recently kissed. He wanted to kiss them again now, but
the man in black crossed the room in four quick strides and took hold of him by hair and arm. The mo vement, in the
confined space of Laura May's room, had the effect of an earth tremor. Pieces of her precious collection toppled over
on the shelves and dressing table, one exhibit falling against another, and that against its neighbor, until a minor
avalanche of trivia hit the floor. Laura M ay was blind to any damage however. Her thoughts were with the man who
had so sweetly shared her bed. She could see the trepidation in Earl's eyes as the evangelist dragged him away, and
she shared it.
"Let him be !" she shrieked , forsaking her m ode sty and getting up from the bed . "He hasn't done anything wrong!"
The evangelist paused to respond, Earl wrestling uselessly to free himself. "What would you know abo ut error,
whore?" Gyer spat at her. "Y ou're too steepe d in sin. Y ou with your na kedness, and your stinking b ed."
The bed did stink, but only of goo d soa p and recent love. She had nothing to apologize for, and she wasn't going to
let this two-bit Bible-thumper intimidate her.
"I'll call the co ps!" she warn ed. "If you don't leave him alo ne, I'll call them!"
Gyer didn't grace the threat with a reply. He simply dragged Earl out through the door and into the kitchen. Laura
May yelled: "Hold on, Earl. I'll get help." Her lover didn't answer. He was too busy preventing Gyer from pulling out
his hair by the roots.
Sometimes, when the days were long and lonely, Laura May had daydreamed dark men like the evangelist. She had
imagined them co ming b efore tornad oes, wreathed in du st. She had pictured herself lifted up by them-o nly half
against her will-and taken away. But the man who had lain in her bed tonight had been utterly unlike her feverdream lovers; he had been foolish and vulnerable. If he were to die at the hands of a man like Gyer-whose image she
had conjured in her desperation-she would never forgive herself.
She heard her father say: "W hat's going on?" in the far room. So mething fell and smashed; a p late perhaps, from o ff
the dre sser, or a glass fro m his lap . She p rayed her P apa would n't try and tackle the evangelist. He would be chaff in
the wind if he did. She went back to the bed to root for her clothes. They were wound up in the sheets, and her
frustration mounted with every second she lost searching for them. She tossed the pillows aside. One landed on the
dressing table; more of her exquisitely arranged pieces were swept to the floor. As she pulled on her underwear her
father appeared at the door. His drink-flushed features turned a deeper red seeing her state.
"What you been doing, Laura May?"
"N ever m ind, Pa. There's no time to explain."
"B ut there's men out there-"
"I know. I know. I want you to call the sheriff in Panhandle. Understand?"
"What's going on?"
"N ever m ind. Just call Alvin and be quick ab out it or w e're going to have ano ther murder on o ur hands."
The thought of slaughter galvanized Milton Cade. H e disappeared, leaving his daughter to finish dressing. Laura
May knew that on a night like this Alvin Baker and his deputy could be a long time coming. In the meanwhile God

alone knew what the mad -dog preacher w ould be ca pab le of.
From the doorway, Sadie watched the woman dress. Laura May was a plain creature, at least to Sadie's critical eye,
and her fair skin mad e her lo ok wa n and insubstantial despite her full figure. B ut then, tho ught Sadie, who am I to
com plain o f lack of substance? Loo k at me. And for the first time in the thirty years since her death she felt a
nostalgia for corporality. In p art because she envied L aura M ay her b liss with Earl, and in part because she itch ed to
have a role in the drama that was rapidly unfolding around her.
In the kitchen an abruptly sobered Milton Cade was blabb ering on the phone, trying to rouse some action from the
peo ple in P anhandle, while Lau ra M ay, who had finished dressing, unlocked the botto m drawer of her d ressing table
and rumm aged for som ething. Sadie p eered over the woman's shoulde r to discover what the trophy was, and a thrill
of recognition made her scalp tingle as her eyes alighted on her .38. So it was Laura May who had found the gun; the
whey-faced six-year-old who had been running up and down the walkway all that evening thirty years ago, playing
games with herself and singing songs in the hot still air.
It delighted Sadie to see the murder weapon again. Maybe, she thought, I have left some sign of myself to help shape
the future. Maybe I am mo re than a headline on a yellowed newspaper, a dimming memo ry in aging heads. She
watched with new and eager eyes as Laura May slipped on some shoes and headed out into the bellowing storm.
VIRGINIA sat slumped against the wall of Room Seven and looked across at the seedy figure leaning on the door
lintel across from her. She had let the delusion she had conjured have what way it would with her; and never in her
forty-odd years had she heard such depravity promised. But though the shadow had come at her again and again,
pressing its cold body onto hers, its icy, slack mouth against her own, it had failed to carry one act of violation
through. T hree tim es it had tried. T hree tim es the urgent wo rds whispered in her ear ha d not been realized. Now it
guarded the door, preparing, she guessed, for a further assault. Its face was clear enough for her to read the
bafflement and the shame in its features. It viewed her, she thought, with murder on its mind.
Outside, she heard her husband's voice above the din of the thunder, and Earl's voice too, raised in protest. There
was a fierce argument going on, that much was apparent. She slid up the wall, trying to make out the words. The
delusion watched her balefully.
"Y ou failed ," she to ld it.
It didn't reply.
"Y ou're just a drea m of m ine, and you failed ."
It ope ned its mouth and waggled its pa llid tongue. She didn't understand why it hadn't evaporated. But p erhap s it
would tag along with her until the pills had worked their way through her system. No matter. She had endured the
worst it could offer. Now, given time, it would surely leave her be. Its failed rapes left it bereft of power over her.
She crossed toward the door, no longer afraid. It raised itself from its slouched posture.
"Where are you going?" it demanded.
"O ut," she said. "To help E arl."
"N o," it told her, "I haven 't finished with you."
"Y ou're just a phantom," she retorted. "Y ou ca n't stop me."
It offered up a grin that was three parts malice to one part charm. "Yo u're wrong, Virginia," Buck said. There was no
purp ose in d eceiving the woma n any longer; he 'd tired of that particular game. A nd perhap s he'd failed to get the old
jazz going because she'd given herself to him so easily, believing he was some harmless nightmare. "I'm no delusion,
woman," he said. "I'm Buck Durning." She frowned at the wavering figure. Was this a new trick her psyche was
playing? "T hirty years ago I was shot dead in this very ro om. Just abo ut where you're standing in fact."
Instinctively, Virginia glanced down at the carpet at her feet, alm ost exp ecting the bloo dstains to be there still.
"W e cam e back ton ight, Sad ie and I," the gho st w ent on. "A one-night stand at the Slaughterhouse of Love. That's
what they called this place, did you know that? People used to come here from all over, just to peer in at this very
room; just to see where Sadie Durning had shot her husband Buck. Sick people, Virginia, don't you think? M ore
interested in murder than love. Not me... I've always liked love, you know? Almost the only thing I've ever had
much of a talent for, in fact."
"Y ou lied to me," she sa id. "Y ou use d me ."
"I haven't finished yet," B uck promised. "In fact I've b arely started."
He moved from the door toward her, but she was prepared for him this time. As he touched her, and the smoke was
made flesh again, she threw a blow toward him. Buck moved to avoid it, and she dodged p ast him toward the door.
Her untied hair got in her eyes, but she virtually threw herself toward freedom. A cloudy hand snatched at her, but
the grasp was too tenuous and slipped.
"I'll be waiting," Buck called after her as she stumbled across the walkway and into the storm. "You hear me, bitch?
I'll be waiting!"

He wasn't going to hum iliate himse lf with a pursuit. She would have to com e bac k, wouldn't she? And he, invisible
to all but the woman, could afford to bide his time. If she told her co mpa nions w hat she'd seen they'd call her crazy;
maybe lock her up where he could have her all to himself. No, he had a winner here. She would return soaked to the
skin, her dress clinging to her in a dozen fetching wa ys; panicky perhap s; tearful; too weak to resist his overtures.
They'd make music then. Oh yes. Until she begged him to stop.
SAD IE followed Laura May out.
"W here are you going?" M ilton asked his daughter, but she didn't reply. "Jesus!" he shouted after her, registering
what he'd seen. "Where'd you get the goddamn gun?"
The rain was torrential. It beat on the ground, on the last leaves of the cottonwood, on the roof, on the skull. It
flattened Laura M ay's hair in seconds, pasting it to her forehead and neck.
"Earl?" she yelled . "W here are you? Earl?" She b egan to run across the lot, yelling his name as she went. T he rain
had turned the dust to a de ep brown mud; it slopped up against her shins. S he cro ssed to the othe r building. A
number of guests, already woken by Gyer's barrage, watched her from their windows. Several doors were open. One
man, standing on the walkway with a beer in his hand, demanded to know wha t was going on. "People running
around like crazies," he sa id. "A ll this yelling. W e cam e here for som e priva cy for C hrist's sake." A girl-fully twenty
years his junior-emerged from the room behind the beer drinker. "She's got a gun, Dwayne," she said. "See that?"
"W here did they go?" Laura M ay asked the beer drinker.
"Who?" Dwayne replied.
"The crazies!" Laura M ay yelled back abo ve another peal of thunder.
"They went around the back of the office," Dwayne said, his eyes on the gun rather than Laura May. "They're not
here. R eally they're no t."
Laura M ay doubled back toward the o ffice build ing. The rain and lightning were blind ing, and she had difficulty
keep ing her b alance in the swamp underfoot.
"Earl!" she called. "Are you there?"
Sadie kept pace with her. The Cade woman had pluck, no doubt of that, but there was an edge of hysteria in her
voice which S adie d idn't like too much . This kind o f business (murder) required d etachment. The trick was to do it
almost casually, as you might flick on the radio, or swat a mosquito. Panic would only cloud the issue; passion the
same. Why, when she'd raised that .38 and pointed it at Buck there'd been no anger to spoil her aim, not a trace. In
the final analysis, that was why they'd se nt her to the chair. No t for do ing it, but for doing it too well.
Laura M ay was not so cool. H er bre ath had beco me ragged , and fro m the way she so bbe d Earl's name as she ra n it
was clear she was close to the breaking point. She rounded the back of the office building, where the motel sign
threw a cold light on the waste ground, and this time, when she called for Earl, there was an answering cry. She
stopped, peering through the veil of rain. It was Earl's voice, as she'd hoped, but he wasn't calling to her.
"B astard!" he was yelling, "you're out of your mind . Let me alone!"
No w she could make out two figures in the midd le distance. Earl, his paunchy torso spattered an d streaked with
mud, was on his knees in among the soap weed and the scrub. Gyer stood over him, his hands on Earl's head,
pressing it down toward the earth.
"Admit yo ur crime, sinner!"
"D amn you, no !"
"Y ou came to destro y my crusade. Adm it it! Admit it!"
"G o to hell!"
"Confess your comp licity, or so help me I'll break every b one in your b ody!"
Earl fought to be free of Gyer, but the evangelist was easily the stronger of the two men.
"Pray!" he said, pressing E arl's face into the mud. "P ray!"
"Go fuck yourself," Earl shouted back.
Gyer dragged E arl's head up by the hair, his other hand raised to deliver a blow to the upturned face. But before he
could strike, Laura May entered the fray, taking three or four steps through the dirt toward them, the .38 held in her
quaking hands.
"Get away from him," she demanded.
Sadie calmly noted that the woman's aim was not all it could be. Even in clear weather she was probably no
sharpshooter. But here, under stress, in such a downpour, who but the most experienced marksman could guarantee
the outcome? Gyer turned and looked at Laura May. He showed not a flicker of apprehension. He's made the same
calculation I've just made, Sadie thought. He knows damn well the odds are against him getting harmed.
"T he whore!" Gyer anno unced, turning his eyes heave nward . "Do you see her, Lord? See her sham e, her d epravity?
Mark her! She is o ne of the court of Ba bylon!"

Laura M ay didn't quite comprehend the details, but the general thrust of Gyer's outburst was perfectly clear. "I'm no
whore!" she yelled back , the .38 almost leaping in her hand as if eager to be fired. "D on't you d are ca ll me a whore!"
"Please, Laura M ay..." Earl said, wrestling with Gyer to get a look at the wo man, ". . . get out of here. He's lost his
mind."
She ignored the imperative.
"If you don't let go of him she said, pointing the gun at the man in black.
"Yes?" Gyer taunted her. "What will you do, whore?"
"I'll shoot! I will! I'll shoot."
OV ER on the other side of the office building Virginia spotted one of the pill bottles Gyer had thrown out into the
mu d. She stoop ed to pick it up and then thou ght better of the ide a. She didn't need pills any more, did she? She'd
spoken to a dead man. H er very touch had made Buck D urning visible to her. What a skill that was! Her visions
were real, and always had been; more true than all the secondhand revelations her pitiful husband could spout. What
could pills do but befuddle this newfound talent? Let them lie.
A num ber o f guests had now do nned jacke ts and emerged from their room s to see what the com motio n was all
abo ut.
"Has there been an accident?" a woman called to Virginia. As the words left her lips a shot sounded.
"John," Virginia said.
Before the echoes of the shot had died she was making her way toward their source. She already pictured what she
would find there: her husband laid flat on the ground; the triumphant assassin taking to his muddied heels. She
picked up her pace, a prayer coming as she ran. She prayed not that the scenario she had imagined was wrong, but
rather that God would forgive her for willing it to be true.
The scene she found on the other side of the building confounded all her expectations. The evangelist was not dead.
He was standing, untouched. It was Earl who lay flat on the miry ground beside him. Close by stood the woman
who'd come with the ice water hours earlier. She had a gun in her hand. It still smoked. Even as Virginia's eyes
settled on Laura M ay a figure stepped through the rain and struck the weapon from the woman's hand. It fell to the
ground. V irginia follo wed the descent. Laura M ay looked startled. S he clea rly didn't understand ho w she'd come to
drop the gun. Virginia knew, ho wever. She could see the p hantom, albeit fleetingly, and she guessed its identity.
This was surely Sadie Durning, she whose defiance had christened this establishment the Slaughterhouse of Love.
Laura May's eyes found Earl. She let out a cry of horror and ran towards him.
"D on't be dead, Earl. I b eg you, don't be dead!"
Earl looked up from the mud bath he'd taken and shook his head.
"Missed me by a mile," he said.
At his side, Gyer had fallen to his knees, hands clasped together, face up to the driving rain.
"O h Lord, I than k you fo r preserving this your instrument, in his hour of need..."
Virginia shut out the idiot drivel. This was the man who had convinced her so deeply of her own deluded state that
she'd given herself to Buck Durning. Well, no more. She'd been terrorized enough. She'd seen Sadie act upon the real
world ; she'd felt Buck do the same. T he time was no w ripe to reve rse the p rocedure. She walked steadily across to
where the .38 lay in the grass and picked it up.
As she did so , she sensed the prese nce o f Sadie Durning clo se by. A voice, so soft she barely heard it, said, "Is this
wise?" in her ear. V irginia didn't know the answ er to that questio n. W hat was wisdo m anyh ow? No t the stale rhetoric
of dead prophets, certainly. Maybe wisdom wa s Laura May and E arl, embracing in the mud, careless of the prayers
Gyer was spouting, or of the stares of the guests who'd come running out to see who'd died. Or perhaps wisdom was
finding the canker in your life and rooting it out once and for all. Gun in hand, she headed back toward Room Seven,
aware that the benign presence of Sadie Durning walked at her side.
"N ot Buck...?" Sadie whispered, "...surely not."
"H e attacked m e," V irginia said .
"Y ou poor lamb."
"I'm no lamb," Virginia rep lied. "N ot anym ore."
Realizing that the wom an was perfectly in charge of her destiny, Sad ie hung back , fearful that he r presence would
alert Buck. She watched as Virginia crossed the lot, past the cottonwood tree, and stepped into the room where her
tormentor had said he would be waiting. The lights still burned, bright after the blue darkness outside. There was no
sign of Durning. Virginia crossed to the interconnecting door. Room Eight was deserted too. Then, the familiar
voice.
"You came back," Buck said.
She wheeled around, hiding the gun from him. He had emerged from the bathroom and was standing between her

and the door.
"I knew you'd com e bac k," be said to her. "T hey alwa ys do."
"I want you to show yourself-" Virginia said.
"I'm naked as a ba be as it is," said B uck, "what do you want me to do: skin m yself? M ight be fun, at that."
"Show yo urself to John, m y husba nd. M ake him see his error."
"Oh, poor John. I don't think he wants to see me, do you?"
"H e thinks I'm insane."
"Insanity can be very useful," Buck smirked, "they almost saved Sadie from Old Sparky on a plea of insanity. But
she was too honest for her own good . She just kept telling them, over and o ver: 'I wanted him dead . So I shot him.'
She never had m uch sense. B ut you... no w, I think yo u know what's best for you."
The shadowy form shifted. Virginia couldn't quite make out what Durning was doing with himself but it was
unequivocally obscene.
"Come and get it, Virginia," he said, "grub's up."
She took the .38 from behind her back and leveled it at him.
"Not this time," she said.
"You can't do me any harm with that," he replied. "I'm already dead, remember?"
"You hurt me. Why shouldn't I be able to hurt you back?"
Buck shook his ethereal head, letting out a low laugh. As he was so engaged the wail of police sirens rose from
dow n the highway.
"W ell, what do you know ?" B uck said. "Such a fuss and com motio n. W e'd better get do wn to so me jazzing, honey,
before we get interrup ted."
"I warn you, this is Sadie's gun-"You wouldn't hurt me," Buck murmured. "I know you
women. Yo u say one thing and you mean the opposite." He stepped toward her, laughing.
"Don't," she warned.
He took another step, and she pulled the trigger. In the instant before she heard the sound, and felt the gun leap in her
hand, she saw John appear in the doorway. Had he been there all along, or was he coming out of the rain, prayers
done, to read Revelations to his erring wife? She would never know T he bullet sliced through Buck, dividing the
smoky body as it went, and sped with perfect accurac y toward the evangelist. He didn't see it coming. It struck him
in the throat, and blood came quickly, splashing down his shirt. Buck's form dissolved like so much dust, and he was
gone. Suddenly there was nothing in Room Seven but Virginia, her dying husband and the sound of the rain.
John Gye r frowned at V irginia, then reached out for the d oor frame to support his considerable bulk. He failed to
secure it, and fell backward out of the door like a toppled statue, his face washed by the rain. The blood did not stop
coming however. It poured out in gleeful spurts; and it was still pumping when Alvin Baker and his deputy arrived
outside the ro om, guns at the ready.
Now her husband would never know, she thought. That was the pity of it. He could never now be made to concede
his stupid ity and recant his arroga nce. N ot this side of the gra ve, anyhow. H e was sa fe, dam n him, and she was left
with a smoking gun in he r hand and G od alone knew what price to pay.
"Put down the gun and com e out of there!" The vo ice from the lot sounded harsh and uncomp romising.
Virginia didn't answer.
"Y ou hear me, in there? This is Sheriff B aker. T he place is surround ed, so com e on o ut, or you're dead."
Virginia sat on the bed and weighed up the alternatives. They wouldn't execute her for what she'd done, the way they
had Sadie. But she'd be in prison for a long time, and she was tired of regimes. If she wasn't mad now, incarceration
would push her to the brink and over. Better to finish here, she thought. She put the warm .38 under her chin, tilting
it to make sure the shot would take off the top o f her skull.
"Is that wise?" Sadie inquired, as Virginia's finger tightened.
"T hey'll lock me away," she replied . "I couldn't face that."
"T rue," said Sadie. " They'll put you b ehind bars fo r a while. B ut it won't be for long."
"Y ou must be joking. I just shot my husb and in cold bloo d."
"Y ou didn't mean to," S adie sa id brightly, "you were aiming at Buc k."
"W as I?" Virginia said. "I wo nder."
"Y ou can plead insanity, the way I should have d one. Just make up the mo st outrag eous story you can a nd stick to
it." Virginia shook her head; she'd never been much of a liar. "And when you're set free," Sadie went on, "you'll be
notorious. That's worth living for, isn't it?"
Virginia had n't thought o f that. The ghost of a smile illuminated her face. From outside, Sheriff Baker rep eated his
demand that she throw her weapon through the door and come out with her hands high.

"Y ou've go t ten seco nds, lad y," he said, "and I m ean ten."
"I can't face the humiliation," Virginia murmured. " I can't."
Sadie shrugged. "Pity," she said. "The rain's clearing. There's a moon.
"A moon? Really?"
Baker had started counting.
"Y ou have to m ake up your m ind," Sadie said. " They'll shoot you given half the chance. And gladly."
Baker had reached eight. Virginia stood up.
"Stop," she called through the door.
Baker stopped counting. Virginia threw out the gun. It landed in the mud.
"G ood ," said Sadie. "I'm so please d."
"I can't go alone," Virginia replied.
"No need ."
A sizeable audience had gathered in the lot: E arl and Laura May of co urse, M ilton Cade, Dwayne and his girl,
Sheriff Bake r and his dep uty, an asso rtment of motel guests. T hey stoo d in respectful silence, staring at V irginia
Gyer with mingled expressions of bewilderment and awe.
"Put your hands up where I can see them!" Baker said. Virginia did as she was instructed.
"Look," said Sadie, pointing.
The moon was up, wide and white.
"Why'd you kill him?" Dwayne's girl asked.
"T he D evil made m e do it," Virginia replied, gazing up at the mo on and putting on the craziest smile she could
muster.

DOWN, SATAN!
CIRC UM STAN CES HAD made G regorius rich beyond all calculation. H e owned fleets and palaces; stallions;
cities Indeed he owned so m uch that to those who were finally charged with enumerating his possessions-when the
events of this story reached their monstrous conclusion-it sometimes seemed it might be quicker to list the items
Gregorius did not own.
Rich he was, but far fro m hap py. He had been raised a Catholic, and in his ea rly years-before his dizzying rise to
fortune-he'd found succor in his faith. But he'd neglected it, and it was only at the age of fifty-five, with the world at
his feet, that he woke one night and found himself God less.
It was a bitter blow, but he immediately took steps to make good his loss. He went to Rome and spoke with the
Supreme Pontiff; he prayed night and day; he found ed seminaries and leper colonies. G od, however, declined to
show so much as His toenail. Gregorius, it seemed, was forsaken.
Almost despairing, he took it into his head that he could only win his way back into the arms of his Maker if he put
his soul into the direst jeop ardy. T he notion had som e merit. Supp ose, he thought, I could contrive a m eeting with
Satan, the Archfiend. Seeing me in extremis, would not God be obliged to step in and deliver me back into the fold?
It was a fine plot, but how was he to realize it? The Devil did not just come at a call, even for a tycoon such as
Gregorius, and his researches soon proved that all the traditional methods of summoning the Lord of Vermin-the
defiling of the Blessed Sacrament, the sacrificing of babes-were no more effective than his good works had been at
provoking Ya hweh. It was on ly after a year of deliberation that he finally fell upo n his master plan. He would
arrange to have b uilt a hell on earth-a m ode rn inferno so m onstro us that the Tempter would be tempted, and come to
roost there like a cuck oo in a usurp ed ne st.
He searched high and low for an architect and found, languishing in a madhouse outside Florence, a man called
Leopard o, who se plan s for M ussolini's palaces had a lunatic gra ndeur that suited G regorius's project perfectly.
Leopardo was taken from his cell-a fetid, wretched old man-and given his dreams again. His genius for the
prodigious had not deserted him.
In order to fuel his invention the great libraries of the world were scoured for descriptions of hells both secular and
metaphysical. M useum vaults were ransacked for fo rbidden images of martyrdom. No stone was left unturned if it
was suspected something perverse was concealed beneath.
The finished designs owed something to de Sade and to Dante, and something more to Freud and K rafft-Ebing, but
there was also much there that no mind had conceived of before, or at least ever dared set to paper.
A site in North Africa was chosen, and work on Grego rius's New He ll began. Everything about the project broke the

records. Its fou ndations were vaster, its walls thicke r, its plumbing m ore elaborate than any ed ifice hitherto
attempted. Gregorius watched its slow construction with an enthusiasm he had not tasted since his first years as an
empire builder. Needless to say, he was widely thought to have lost his mind. Friends he had known for years
refused to asso ciate with him. Se veral of his com panies collapsed when investors took fright at reports of his
insanity. He didn't care. His plan could not fail. The Devil would be bound to come, if only out of curiosity to see
this leviathan built in his name, and when he did, Gregorius would be waiting.
The work took four years and the better part of Gregorius's fortune. The finished building was the size of ha lf a
doz en cathedrals and boasted ev ery facility the A ngel of the Pit co uld desire. Fires burned behind its walls, so that to
walk in many of its corridors was almost unendurable agony. The room s off those corridors were fitted with every
imaginable d evice of persecution-the needle, the rack, the da rk-that the genius of Satan's torturers be given fair
emp loy. There w ere ovens large eno ugh to cremate families; poo ls deep enough to d rown generations. T he N ew H ell
was an atrocity waiting to happen; a celebration of inhumanity that only lacked its first cause.
The builders withdrew and thankfully. It was rumored among them that Satan had long been watching over the
construction of his pleasure dom e. Some even claimed to have glimp sed him on the deeper levels, wh ere the chill
was so profound it froze the piss in your bladder. There was some evidence to support the belief in supernatural
presences converging on the building as it neared completion, not least the cruel death of Leopardo, who had either
thrown himse lf or-the sup erstitious argued -been pitched through his sixth-story ho tel window. H e was b uried with
due extravagance.
So now alone in hell, Gregorius waited.
He d id not have to w ait long. He had been there a day, no mo re, when he heard noises from the lower dep ths.
Anticipation brimming, he went in search of their source, but found only the roiling of excrement baths and the
rattling of ovens. He returned to his suite of chambers on the ninth level and waited. The noises came again; again he
went in search of their source; again he came away disappointed.
The disturb ances did not abate, however. In the days that follo wed scarcely ten minutes wo uld pass witho ut his
hearing Some sound 9f occupa ncy. The Prince of Darkness was here, Gregorius could have no doubt of it, but he
was keeping to the shadows. Gregorius was content to play along. It was the Devil's party, after all. His to play
whatever game he chose.
But during the long and o ften lonely months that followed, Gregorius wearied of this hide-and-see k and bega n to
demand that Satan show himself. His voice rang unanswered down the deserted corridors, however, until his throat
was bruised with shouting. Thereafter he went about his searches stealthily, hoping to catch his tenant unawares. But
the Apostate Angel always flitted away before Gregorius could step within sight of him.
They would play a waiting game, it seemed, he and Satan, chasing each other's tails through ice and fire and ice
again. Gregorius told himself to be patient. The Devil had come, hadn't he? Wasn't that his fingerprint on the door
hand le? H is turd on the stairs? Soo ner or later the F iend would show his face, and G regorius would spit on it.
THE world outside went on its way, and Gregorius was consigned to the company of other recluses who had been
ruined by wealth. His Folly, as it was known, was not entirely without visitors, however. There were a few who had
loved him too much to forget him-a few, also, who had profited b y him and hoped to turn his m adness to their
further p rofit-who dared the gates of the New Hell. These visitors mad e the jo urney without announcing their
intentions, fearing the disapproval of their friends. The investigations into their subsequent disappearance never
reached as far as North Africa.
AND in his folly Gregorius still chased the Serpent, and the Serpent still eluded him, leaving only more and mo re
terrible signs of his o ccup any as the months went by.
IT was the wife of one of the m issing visitors who finally d isc overed the truth and alerted the authorities. G rego rius's
Folly was put under surveillance, and finally-some three years after its completion-a quartet of officers braved the
threshold.
W ithout maintenance the Folly had begun to deteriorate badly. The lights had failed on man y of the levels, its walls
had cooled, its pitch pits solidified. But as the officers advanced through the gloomy vaults in search of Gregorius
they came upon ample evidence that despite its decrepit condition the New H ell was in good working order. T here
were bodies in the ovens, their faces wide and black. There were huma n remains seated and strung up in many of the
rooms, gouged and p ricked and slit to death.
Their terror grew with every door they pressed open, every new abomination their fevered eyes fell upon.
Tw o of the four who cro ssed the threshold never reached the cham ber at its center. T error overtook them on their
way and they fled , only to b e waylaid in som e cho ked passageway and adde d to the hundreds w ho had perished in

the Folly since Satan had taken residence.
Of the pair who finally unearthed the perpetrator, only one had courage enough to tell his story, though the scenes he
faced there in the Folly's heart were almost too terrible to bear relating.
There was no sign of Satan, of course. There was only Gregorius. The master builder, finding no one to inhabit the
house he had sweated over, had occupied it himself He had with him a few disciples whom he'd mustered over the
years. They, like him, seemed unremarkable creatures. But there was not a torture device in the building they had not
mad e thoro ugh and me rciless use of.
Gre gorius did not resist his arrest. Ind eed he seemed please d to ha ve a platform from w hich to boast of his
butcheries. Then, and later at his trial, he spoke freely of his ambition and his appetite; and of how much more blood
he would spill if they would only set him free to do so. Enough to drown all belief and its delusions, he swore. And
still he would not be satisfied. For God was rotting in paradise, and Satan in the abyss, and who was to stop him?
He was much reviled during the trial, and later in the asylum where, under some suspicious circumstances, he died
barely two months later. The V atican expunged all repo rt of him fro m its records. The seminaries founde d in his
unholy name were dissolved.
But there we re those, even amo ng the cardinals, who could not pu t his unrep entant m alice out of their heads, and-in
the privacy of their doubt-wondered if he had not succeeded in his strategy. If, in giving up all hope of angels-fallen
or otherwise-he had not be com e one himself.
Or all that earth could bear of such phenomena.

THE AGE OF DESIRE

TH E BU RNIN G man p ropelled himself down the steps of the Hume Labo ratories as the police car-summoned, he
presumed, by the alarm either Welles or Dance had set off upstairs-appeared at the gate and swung up the driveway
As he ran from the door the car screeched up to the steps and d ischarged its huma n cargo. H e waited in the shadows,
too exhausted by terror to run any farther, certain that they would see him. But they disappeared through the swing
doors without so much as a glance toward his torment. Am I on fire at all? he wondered. W as this horrifying
spectacle-his flesh baptized with a polished flam e that seared b ut failed to consume-simply a hallucina tion, for his
eyes and his eyes only? If so, perhaps all that he had suffered up in the laboratory had also been delirium. Perhaps he
had not truly committed the crimes he had fled from , the heat in his flesh licking him into ecstasies.
He looked d own his body. His exposed skin still crawled with livid dots of fire, but one by one they were being
extinguished. H e was going o ut, he realized, like a neglected bonfire. The sensations that had suffused him-so
intense and so d emand ing that they had been as like pain as pleasure-were finally deserting his nerve endings,
leaving a numbness for which he was grateful. His body, now appearing from beneath the veil of fire, was in a sorry
condition. His skin was a panic-map of scratches, his clothes torn to shreds, his hands sticky with coagulating blood;
blood, he knew, that was not his own. There was no avoiding the bitter truth. He had done all he had imagined
doing. Even now the officers wo uld be staring dow n at his atro cious handiwork.
He crept away from his niche beside the door and down the driveway, keeping a lookout for the return of the two
policemen. Ne ither reappe ared. Tile stre et beyo nd the gate wa s deserted. H e started to run. H e had mana ged only a
few pa ces when the alarm in the build ing behind him was abruptly cut off. For sev eral sec onds his ears rang in
sympathy with the silenced bell. Then, eerily, he began to hear the sound of heat-the surreptitious murmuring of
emb ers-distant enough that he didn't panic, yet close as his heartbeat.
He limped on to put as much distance as he could between him and his felonies before they' were discovered. But
however fast he ran, the heat went with him, safe in some backwater of his gut, threatening with every desperate step
he took to ignite him afresh.
IT took Dooley several seconds to identify the cacophony he was hearing from the upper floor now that McBride
had hushed the alarm bell. It was the high-pitched chattering of monkeys, and it came from one of the many rooms
dow n the co rridor to his right.
"V irgil," he called d own the stairwe ll. "Ge t up here."
Not waiting for his partner to join him, Dooley headed off toward the source of the din. Halfway along the corridor
the sme ll of static and new carpeting gave way to a more pungent combinatio n: urine, d isinfectant and ro tting fruit.
Dooley slowed his advance. He didn't like the smell any more than he liked the hysteria in the babble of monkey
voices. But McBride was slow in answering his call, and after a short hesitation, Dooley's curiosity got the better of
his disquiet. Hand on truncheon he approached the open door and stepped in. His appearance sparked off another

wave of frenzy from the animals, a doz en or so rhe sus monke ys. They threw them selves around in their cages,
somersaulting, screeching and berating the wire mesh. Their excitement was infectious. Dooley could feel the sweat
begin to squeeze from his pores.
"Is there anyb ody here? " he called o ut.
The only reply came from the prisoners: more hysteria, more cage rattling. He stared across the room at them. They
stared bac k, their teeth bared in fear or w elcome; Doo ley didn't know which, nor d id he wish to test their intentions.
He kept well clear o f the ben ch on which the cages were lined up as he beg an a perfunctory search of the labo ratory.
"I wondered what the hell the smell was," McB ride said, appearing at the door.
"Just animals," Dooley replied.
"D on't they ever wash? Filthy buggers."
"Anything downstairs?"
"N ope," M cBride said, crossing to the cages. The mo nkeys m et his advance with more gymnastics. "Just the alarm ."
"Nothing up here either," Dooley said. He was about to add, "Don't do that," to prevent his partner putting his finger
to the mesh, but before the words were out one of the animals seized the proffered digit and bit it. McB ride wrested
his finger free and threw a blow back against the mesh in retaliation. Sq uealing its anger, the occ upant flung its
scrawny body about in a lunatic fandango that threatened to pitch cage and monkey alike onto the floor.
"You'll need a tetanus shot for that," Dooley commented.
"Shit!" said McBride, "what's wrong with the little bastard anyhow?"
"M aybe they do n't like strangers."
"T hey're out of their tiny minds." McBride sucked rumina tively on his finger, then spat. "I mean, look at them."
Doo ley didn't answer.
"I said, look McBride repeated.
Very quietly, D ooley said: "Over here."
"'What is it?"
"Just com e ove r here."
McB ride drew his gaze from the row of cages and across the cluttered work surfaces to where Dooley was staring at
the gro und, the look on his fac e one of fascina ted revulsion. McBride ne glected his finger sucking and thre aded his
way among the benches and stools to where his partner stood.
"Under there," Dooley murmured.
On the scuffed floor at Doo ley's feet was a woman's beige shoe; beneath the bench was the shoe's owner. To judge
by her cramped position she had either been secreted there by the miscreant or dragged herself out of sight and died
in hiding.
"Is she dead?" McBride asked.
"Lo ok at her, for C hrist's sake," Do oley replied, "she's be en torn open."
"W e've got to check for vital signs," McBride reminded him. Dooley made no move to comply, so McBride squatted
down in front of the victim and checked for a pulse at her ravaged neck. There was none. Her skin was still warm
beneath his fingers however. A gloss of saliva on her cheek had not yet dried.
Doo ley, calling in his report, looked do wn at the deceased. The worst of her wounds, on the upper torso, were
masked by M cBride's crouching bo dy All he could see was a fall of auburn hair and her legs, one foot shoe less,
protruding from her hiding place. They were beautiful legs, he thought. He might have whistled after such legs once
upon a time.
"She's a doctor or a technician," McBride said. "She's wearing a lab coat." Or she had been. In fact the coat had been
ripped open, as had the layers of clothing beneath, and then, as if to co mplete the exhibition, the skin an d muscle
beneath that. Mc Brid e pee red into her chest. The sternum ha d been snappe d and the heart teased from its seat, as if
her killer had wanted to take it as a keepsake and been interrupted in the act. He perused her without squeamishness;
he had always prided himself on his strong stomach.
"Are you satisfied she's dead?"
"N ever saw deader."
"Carnegie's coming down," Dooley said, crossing to one of the sinks. Careless of fingerprints, he turned on the tap
and splashed a handful of cold water onto his face. W hen he looked up from his ablutions M cBride ha d left off his
tte--tte with the corpse a nd wa s walking dow n the lab orato ry toward a b ank of machinery.
"W hat do they do here, for Christ's sake?" he rem arked . "Lo ok at all this stuff."
"Some kind of research facility," Dooley said.
"What do they research?"
"How the hell do I know?" Dooley snapped. The ceaseless chatterings of the monkeys and the proximity of the dead
woman made him want to desert the place. "Let's leave it be, huh?"

McB ride ignored Dooley's request; equipment fascinated him. He stared entranced at the encephalograph and
electrocardiograph; at the printout units still disgorging yards of blank paper onto the floor; at the video display
monitors and the consoles. The scene brought the Marie Celeste to his mind. This was like some deserted ship of
science-still humm ing som e tuneless song to itself as it sailed on, though there was neither captain nor crew left
behind to a ttend upon it.
Beyond the wall of equipment was a window, no more than a yard square. McB ride had assumed it let on to the
exterior of the building, but now that he looked more closely he realized it did not. A test chamber lay beyond the
banked units.
"D ooley...?" he said, glancing around. T he ma n had gone, however, down to meet Carnegie presumab ly. Content to
be left to his exploration, McBride returned his attention to the window. There was no light on inside. Curious, he
walked around the back of the banked equipment until he found the chamber door. It was ajar. W ithout hesitation, he
stepped through.
Most of the light through the window was blocked by the instruments on the other side; the interior was dark. It took
McB ride's eyes a few seconds to get a true impression of the chaos the chamber contained: the overturned table; the
chair of which som ebod y had mad e matchwo od; the tangle of cab les and dem olished equipment-cam eras, perhap s,
to monitor proceedings in the chamber?-clusters of lights which had been similarly smashed. No professional vandal
could have made a more thorough job of breaking up the chamber than had been made.
There was a smell in the air which McBride recognized but, irritatingly, couldn't place. He stood still, tantalized by
the scent. The sound of sirens rose from dow n the co rridor outside; Carnegie would be here in mo ments. Suddenly,
the sme ll's association cam e to him . It was the same scent that twitched in his nostrils when, after making love to
Jessica and-as was his ritual-washing himself, he returned from the bathroom to bedroom. It was the smell of sex. He
smiled.
His face was still registering pleasure when a heavy object sliced through the air and met his nose. He felt the
cartilage give and a rush of blood come. H e took two or three giddy steps backward, thereby avoiding the
subsequent slice, but lost his foo ting in the d isarray. H e fell awkward ly in a litter of glass shard s and looked up to
see his assailant, wielding a metal bar, moving toward him. The man's face resembled one of the monkeys; the same
yellowed teeth, the same rabid eyes. "No!" the man shouted, as he brought his makeshift club down on McB ride,
who mana ged to ward off the blow with his arm , snatching at the weapon in so doing. The attack had taken him
unawares but how, with the pain in his mashed nose to add fury to his response, he was more than the equal of the
aggressor. He plucked the club from the man, sweets from a babe, and leaped, roaring, to his feet. Any precepts he
might once have been taught abo ut arrest techniques had fled from his m ind. He lay a hail of blows on the m an's
head and sh oulders, forcing him back ward across the chamb er. The ma n cow ered bene ath the assault and eventually
slump ed, wh impering, aga inst the wall. Only no w, with his antagonist abused to the verg e of unconsciousness, did
McBride's furor falter. He stood in the m iddle of the chamb er, gasp ing for b reath, and wa tched the beaten man slip
dow n the wall. He ha d ma de a p rofou nd error. T he assa ilant, he no w realized, wa s dressed in a white lab orato ry coat.
He wa s, as Doo ley was irritatingly fond o f saying, on the side of the angels.
"D amn," said McBride, "shit, hell and dam n."
The man's eyes flickered open, and he gazed up at M cBride. His grasp on consciousness was evidently tenuous, but
a look of recognition crossed his wide-browed, somber face. Or rather, recognition's absence.
"You're not him," he murmured.
"Who?" said McBride, realizing he might yet salvage his reputation from this fiasco if he could squeeze a clue from
the witness, "Who did you think I was?"
The man o pened his mouth, but no words emerged. Eager to hear the testimony, McB ride crouched beside him and
said:
"Who did you think you were attacking?"
Again the mouth opened; again no audible words em erged. M cBride pressed his suit. "It's important," he said, "just
tell me who wa s here."
The man strove to voice his reply. McBride pressed his ear to the trembling mouth,
"In a pig's eye," the man said, then passed out, leaving McBride to curse his father, who'd bequeathed him a temper
he was afraid he would probably live to regret. But then, what was living for?
INSPEC TOR Carnegie was used to boredom. For every rare moment of genuine discovery his professional life had
furnished him with, he had endured hour upon hour of waiting for bodies to be photographed and examined, for
lawyers to be bargained with and suspects intimidated. He had long ago given up attempting to fight this tide of
ennui and, after his fashion, had learned the art of going with the flow. The processes of investigation could not be
hurried . The wise m an, he had co me to appreciate, let the pathologists, the lawyers and all their tribes have their

tardy way. All that mattered, in the fullness of time, was that the finger be pointed and that the guilty quake.
No w, with the c lock o n the lab orato ry wall reading twelve fifty-three a.m., and eve n the monke ys hushed in their
cages, he sat at one of the benches and waited for Hendrix to finish his calculations. The surgeon consulted the
thermometer, then stripped off his gloves like a second skin and threw them down onto the sheet on which the
deceased lay. "It's always difficult," the doctor said, "fixing time of death. She's lost less than three degrees. I'd say
she's been dea d und er two hours."
"The officers arrived at a quarter to twelve," Carnegie said, "so she died maybe half an hour before that?"
"So mething of that o rder."
"W as she put in there?" he asked, indicating the place beneath the bench.
"Oh certainly. There's no way she hid herself away. Not with those injuries. They're quite something, aren't they?"
Carnegie stared at Hendrix. The man had presumab ly seen hundreds of corpses, in every conceivable condition, but
the enthusiasm in his pinched features was unqualified. Carnegie found that mystery more fascinating in its way than
that of the dead wom an and her slaughterer. Ho w could anyone possibly enjo y taking the rectal tem perature of a
corpse? It confoun ded him . But the pleasure was there, gleaming in the m an's eyes.
"Motive?" Carnegie asked.
"Pretty explicit, isn't it? Rape. There's been very thorough molestation; contusions around the vagina; copious semen
dep osits. Plenty to wo rk with."
"And the wounds on her torso?"
"Ragged. T ears m ore tha n cuts."
"Weapon?"
"Do n't know." Hendrix mad e an inverted U of his mouth. "I mean, the flesh has been mauled. If it weren't for the
rape evidence I'd b e temp ted to suggest an anim al."
"Dog, you mean?"
"I was thinking more of a tiger," Hendrix said.
Carnegie frowned. "Tiger?"
"Joke," Hendrix replied, "I was making a joke, Carnegie. My Christ, do you have any sense of irony?"
"This isn't funny," Carnegie said.
"I'm not laughing," Hendrix replied with a sour look.
"The man McBride found in the test chamber?"
"What about him?"
"Suspect?"
"N ot in a thousand years. W e're looking for a man iac, Ca rnegie. Big, stro ng. W ild."
"And the wounding? Before or after?"
Hendrix scowled. "I don't know. Postmortem will give us more. But for what it's worth, I think our man was in a
frenzy. I'd say the wounding and the rap e were probab ly simultane ous."
Carnegie's normally phlegmatic features registered something close to shock. "Simultaneous?"
Hendrix shrugged. "Lust's a funny thing," he said. " Hilarious," came the ap palled reply.
As was his wont, Carnegie had his driver deposit him half a mile from his doorstep to allow him a head-clearing
walk before home, hot chocolate and slumber. The ritual was observed religiously, even when the Inspector was
dog-tired. He used to stroll to wind down before stepping over the threshold. Long experience had taught him that
taking his professional concerns into the house assisted neither the investigation nor his domestic life. He had
learned the lesson too late to keep his wife from leaving him and his children from estrangement, but he applied the
principle still.
To night, he w alked slowly to a llow the distressing scenes the ev ening had brought to recede somewhat. The route
took him past a small cinema which, he had read in the local press, was soon to be demolished. He was not
surprised. Tho ugh he was no cineaste the fare the flea pit p rovide d had degenerated in recent years. T he week's
offering was a case in point: a double bill of ho rror m ovies. Lurid and d erivative stuff to judge by the posters, with
their crude graphics and their unashamed hyperbole. "You M ay Never Sleep Again."' one of the hook lines read; and
beneath it a woman-very much awake-cowered in the shadow of a two-headed man. W hat trivial images the
populists conjured to stir some fear in their audiences. The walking dead; nature grown vast and rampant in a
miniature world; blood drinkers, omens, fire walkers, thunderstorms and all the other foolishness the public cowered
before. It was all so laughably trite. Among that catalogue of penny dreadful there wasn't one that equaled the
banality of human appetite, which horror (or the consequences of same) he saw every week of his working life.
Thinking o f it, his mind thumbe d through a d ozen snap shots: the dead by torchlight, face dow n and thrashed to
oblivion; and the living too, meeting his mind's eye with hunger in theirs-for sex, for narcotics, for others' pain. W hy

didn't they put that on the posters?
As he reached his home a child squealed in the shadows beside his garage; the cry stopped him in his tracks. It came
again, and this time he recognized it for what it was. No child at all but a cat, or cats, exchanging love calls in the
darkened passageway. He went to the place to shoo them off. Their venereal secretions made the passage stink. He
didn't need to yell; his footfall was sufficient to scare them away. T hey da rted in all directions, not two, but half a
dozen of them. A veritable orgy had been underway apparently. He had arrived on the spot too late however. The
stench of their seductions was overpowering.
CARN EGIE looked blankly at the elaborate setup of monitors and video recorders that dominated his office.
"W hat in Christ's name is this about?" he wanted to know.
"T he video tap es," said Boyle, his nu mbe r two, "from the laboratory. I think you ought to have a loo k at them , sir."
Though they had worked in tandem for se ven m onths, B oyle wa s not one of C arnegie's favorite o fficers; you could
practically smell the ambition off his smooth hide. In someone half his age again such greed would have been
objectionable. In a man of thirty it verge d on the ob scene. This present display-the mu stering o f equip ment ready to
confront Carnegie when he walked in at eight in the morning-was just Boyle's style: flashy and red unda nt.
"Why so many screens?" Carnegie asked acidly. "Do I get it in stereo, too?"
"T hey had three cameras running simultaneo usly, sir. Covering the exp eriment from severa l angles."
"What experiment?"
Boyle gestured for his superior to sit down. Obsequious to a fault aren't you? thought Carnegie; much good it'll do
you.
"Right," B oyle instructed the techn ician at the recorders, "roll the tapes."
Carnegie sipped at the cup of hot cho colate he had brought in with him. The beverage was a weakness o f his,
verging on addiction. On the days when the machine supplying it broke down he was an unhappy man indeed. He
looked at the three screens. Suddenly, a title.
"Project Blind B oy," the word s read . "Re stricted."
"Blind Boy?" said Carnegie. "What, or who, is that?"
"It's obviously a code word of some kind," Boyle said.
"Blind Bo y. Blind Boy." Carnegie repeated the phrase as if to beat it into submission, but before he could solve the
problem the images on the three mo nitors diverged. T hey pictured the sam e subject-a b espectacled male in his late
twenties sitting in a chair-but each sho wed the scen e from a different angle. One took in the sub ject full length and in
profile; the second was a three-quarter medium-shot, angled from above; the third a straightforward close-up of the
subje ct's head and sh oulders, shot through the glass of the test chamber and from the fro nt. The three images were in
black and white, and none were completely centered or focused. Indeed, as the tapes began to run somebody was
still adjusting such technicalities. A backwash of informal chatter ran between the subject and the womanrecognizab le even in brief glim pses as the decease d-who was ap plying electrodes to his forehead. Much of the talk
between them was difficult to catch; the acoustics in the chamber frustrated microphone and listener alike.
"T he wo man's Doctor D ance," Boyle offered. " The victim."
"Yes," said Carnegie, watching the screens intently, "I recognize her. How long does this preparation go on for?"
"Q uite a while. Most of it's uned ifying."
"W ell, get to the edifying stuff, then."
"Fast forward," Boyle said. The technician obliged, and the actors on the three screens became squeaking
comedians. "W ait!" said Boyle. "Back up a short way." Again, the technician did as instructed. "There!" said Boyle.
"Stop there. Now run on at no rmal speed ." The action settled back to its natural pace. "T his is where it really begins,
sir."
Carnegie had come to the end of his hot chocolate. He put his finger into the soft sludge at the bottom of the cup,
delivering the sickly-sweet dregs to his tongue. On the screens Doctor Dance had app roached the subject with a
syringe, was now swabbing the crook of his elbow, and injecting him. Not for the first time since his visit to the
Hume Laboratories did Carnegie wonder precisely what they did at the establishment. Was this kind of procedure de
rigueur in pharmaceutical research? The implicit secrecy of the experiment-late at night in an otherwise deserted
building-suggested not. And there was that imperative on the title card-"Restricted." What they were watching had
clearly never been intended for public viewing.
"Are you comfortable?" a m an off camera now inquired. The subject nodded. His glasses had been removed and he
looked slightly bemused without them. An unremarkable face, thought Carnegie; the subject-as yet unnamed-was
neither Ado nis nor Quasimodo. He w as receding slightly, and his wispy, dirty-blond ha ir touched his shoulders.
"I'm fine, Doctor W elles," he replied to the off-camera questioner.
"You don't feel hot at all? Sweaty?"

"N ot really," the guinea pig replied, slightly ap ologetically. "1 feel ord inary."
That you are, Carnegie thought; then to Boyle: "Have you been through the tapes to the end?"
"N o, sir," B oyle replied. "I thought you'd want to see the m first. I only ran them as far as the injection."
"Any word from the hospital on Doctor Welles?"
"At the last call he was still comato se."
Carnegie grunted and returned his attention to the screens. Following the burst of action with the injection the tapes
now settled into nonactivity: the three cameras fixed on their shortsighted subject with beady stares, the torpor
occasionally interrupted by an inquiry from Welles as to the subject's condition. It remained the same. After three or
four minutes of this eventless study even his occasional blinks began to assume major dramatic significance.
"Don't think much of the plot," the technician commented. Carnegie laughed; Boyle looked discomforted. Two or
three more minutes passed in a similar manner.
'This doesn't look too hopeful," Carnegie said. ''Run through it at speed, will you?"
The technician was abo ut to ob ey when Boyle said : "W ait." Carnegie glanced ac ross at the man, irritated by his
intervention, and then back at the screens. Something was happening. A subtle transformation had overtaken the
insipid features of the subject. He had begun to smile to himself and was sinking down in his chair as if submerging
his gangling bo dy in a warm b ath. His eyes, which had so far ex pressed little bu t affable ind ifference , now b egan to
flicker clo sed, and then, once close d, op ened again. W hen they did so there was a quality in them not previously
visible, a hunger that seemed to reach out from the screen and into the calm of the inspector's office.
Carnegie p ut down his ch oco late cup and approached the screens. As he did so the subjec t also go t up ou t of his
chair and walked toward the glass of the chamber, leaving two of the cameras' ranges. The third still recorded him,
however, as he pressed his face against the window, and for a moment the two men faced each other through layers
of glass and time, seemingly meeting each other's gaze.
The look on the man's face was critical now, the hung er was rapid ly outgro wing sane co ntrol. Eyes burning, he laid
his lips against the chambe r window a nd kissed it, his tongue working against the glass.
"What in Christ's name is going on?" Carnegie said.
A prattle of voices had begun on the soundtrack. Doctor W elles was vainly asking the testee to articulate his feelings
while D ance called off figures fro m the various monitoring instrume nts. It was d ifficult to hear much clearly-the din
was further supplemented by an eruption of chatter from the caged monkeys-but it was evident that the readings
coming through from the man's body were escalating. His face was flushed, his skin gleamed with a sudden sweat
He resembled a m artyr with the tinder at his feet freshly lit, wild with a fatal ecstasy. He stopped French-kissing the
window, tearing off the electrodes at his temples and the sensors from his arms and chest. Dance, her voice now
registering alarm, called out for him to stop. Then she moved across the camera's view and out again crossing,
Carnegie presumed, to the chamber door.
"Better not," he said, as if this drama were played out at his behest, and at a whim he could prevent the tragedy. But
the woman took no notice. A moment later she appeared in long shot as she stepped into the chamber. The man
moved to greet her, throwing over equipment as he did so. She called out to him-his name, perhaps. If so, it was
inaudible over the monkeys' hullabaloo. "Shit," said C arnegie, as the testee's flailing arm s caught first the pro file
camera, and then the three-quarter medium-shot. Two of the three monitors went dead. Only' the head-on shot, the
camera safe outside the chamber, still recorded events, but the tightness of the shot precluded more than an
occasional glimpse of a moving body. Instead, the camera's sober eye gazed on, almost ironically, at the saliva
smeared glass of the chamber window, blind to the atrocities being committed a few feet out of range.
"W hat in Christ's name did they give him?" Carnegie said, as somewhere off camera the woman's screams rose over
the screeching o f the apes.
JEROM E woke in the early afternoon feeling hungry and sore. When he threw the sheet off his body he was
app alled at his state. H is torso was sco red with scratch es, and his groin region was red -raw. W incing, he moved to
the edge of the bed and sat there for a while, trying to piece the previous evening back together again. He
remem bered going to the labo ratories, but very little after that. He had been a paid guinea pig for several mo nths,
giving of his blood, comfort and patience to supplement his meager earnings as a translator. The arrangement had
begun courtesy of a friend who did similar work, but whereas Figley had been part of the laboratories' mainstream
program, Jerome had been approached after one week at the place by Doctors Welles and Dance, who had invited
him-subject to a series of psychological tests-to work exclusively for them. It had been made clear from the outset
that their p roject (he ha d never even bee n told its p urpo se) was of a sec ret nature, and that they wo uld demand his
total dedication and discretion. He had needed the funds, and the recompense they offered was marginally better
than that paid by the laboratories, so he had agreed, although the hours they had demanded of him were unsociable.
For several weeks now he had been required to attend the research facility late at night and often working into the

small hours of the morning as he endured W elles's interminable q uestions abo ut his private life and Dance's glassy
stare.
Thinking of her cold look, he felt a tremor in him. Was it because once he had fooled himself that she had looked
upo n him m ore fo ndly than a do ctor ne ed? Such self-deception, he chided himself was pitiful. H e was not the stuff
of which women dreamed, and each day he walked the streets reinforced that conviction. He could not remember
one occasion in his' adult life when a woman had looked his way, and kept looking; a time when an appreciative
glance of his had been returned. W hy this should bother him now he wasn't certain. His loveless condition was, he
knew, common place . And nature had b een kind. Knowing, it seem ed, that the gift of allure ment had p assed him by,
it had seen fit to minimize his libido. W eeks p assed without his conscious thoughts mourning his enforced chastity.
Once in a while, when he heard the pipes roar, he might wonder what Mrs. Morrisey, his landlady, looked like in her
bath; might imagine the firmness of her soapy breasts, or the dark divide of her rump as she stooped to put talcum
pow der b etween her toes. But such to rments were, b lissfully, infrequent. And whe n his cup brimm ed he would
pocket the money he had saved from his sessions at the laboratories and buy an hour's companionship from a woman
called Ange la (he'd ne ver learned her second name ) on G reek S treet.
It would be severa l weeks before he d id so again, he thought. W hateve r he had do ne last night, or, more correctly,
had done to him , the bruises alon e had nearly crippled him . The only p lausible explanation-though he co uldn't reca ll
any details-was that he'd been beaten up on the way back from the laboratories. Either that, or he'd stepped into a bar
and somebody had picked a fight with him. It had happened before, on occasion. He had one of those faces that
woke the b ully in drunkards.
He stood up and hobbled to the small bathroom adjoining his room. His glasses were missing from their normal spot
besid e the sha ving mirror and his re flection was woefully blurred, but it was ap parent that his face was as bad ly
scratched as the rest of his anatomy. And more: a clump of hair had been pulled out from above his left ear; clotted
blood ran dow n to his neck. Painfully, he bent to the task of cleaning his wounds, then bathing them in a stinging
solution of antiseptic. That done, he returned into his room to seek out his spectacles. But search as he might he
could not locate them. C ursing his idiocy, he roo ted am ong his belongings fo r his old pair an d found them. T heir
presc ription was out of date-his eyes had worsen ed co nsiderably sinc e he'd worn the m-but they at least b rought his
surroundings into a dream y kind of focus.
An indisputable melancholy had crept up on him, comp ounded of his pain and those unwelco me thoughts of Mrs.
Morrisey. To keep its intimacy at bay he turned on the radio. A sleek voice emerged , purveying the usual palliatives.
Jero me ha d alwa ys had contempt fo r popular music a nd its ap ologists, but now, as he moo ched around the small
room, unw illing to clothe himself with cha fing weaves when his scratches still pained him, the so ngs be gan to stir
something other than scorn in him. It was as though he were hearing the words and music for the first time, as
though all his life he had been d eaf to their sentime nts. Enthralled, he forgot his pa in and listened. The songs told
one seamless and obse ssive story: of love lost and found , only to b e lost again. T he lyricists filled the airwa ves with
metaphor-much o f it ludicrous, but no less potent for that. Of paradise, of hearts on fire; of birds, bells, journeys,
sunsets; of passion as lunacy, as flight, as unimaginable treasure. The songs did not calm him with their fatuous
sentiments. They flayed him, evoking, despite feeble rhyme and trite melody, a world bewitched by desire. He began
to tremble. His eyes, strained (or so he reasoned) by the unfamiliar spectacles, began to delude him. It seemed as
though he co uld see traces of light in his skin, sparks flying from the ends of his fingers.
He stared at his hands and arms. The illusion, far from retreating in the face of this scrutiny, increased. Beads of
brightness, like the traces of fire in ash, began to climb through his veins, multiplying even as he watched.
Curiously, he felt no distress. This burgeoning fire merely reflected the passion in the story the songs were telling
him. Love, they said, was in the air, around ever corner, waiting to be found. He thought again of the widow
Mo rrissey in the flat below him, going about her business, sighing, no doubt, as he had done; awaiting her hero. The
more he thought of her the more inflamed he became. She would not reject him, of that the songs convinced him. Or
if she did he must press his case until (again, as the songs promised) she surrendered to him. Suddenly, at the
thought of her surrender, the fire engulfed him. Laughing, he left the radio singing behind him and made his way
downstairs.

IT had taken the best part of the morning to assemble a list of testees employed at the laboratories. Carnegie had
sensed a reluctance on the part of the establishment to open their files to the investigation despite the horror that had
been comm itted on its premises. Finally, lust after noon, they had presented him with a hastily assembled who's who
of subjects, four and a half dozen in toto, and their addresses. None, the offices claimed, matched the description of
W elles's testee. T he do ctors, it was explained, had b een clearly using laboratory facilities to wo rk on private
projects. Though this was not encouraged, both had been senior researchers, and allowed leeway on the matter. It

was likely, the refore, that the man Carnegie was seeking had ne ver even be en on the laborato ries' payro ll.
Undaunted, C arnegie ord ered a selection of p hotographs taken off the video record ing and had them d istributed -with
the list of names and addresses-to his officers. From then on it was down to footwork and patience.
LEO Boyle ran his finger down the list of names he had been given. "Another fourteen," he said. His driver grunted,
and Boyle glanced across at him. "You were McBride's partner, weren't you?" he said.
"T hat's right," D ooley replied . "He's been suspended."
"Why?"
Do oley sco wled. "Lacks finesse, that V irgil. Can't get the hang of arrest techniq ue."
Do oley drew the car to a halt.
"Is this it?" Boyle asked.
"Y ou said num ber eighty. This is eighty. O n the door. Eight. O h."
"I've go t eyes."
Boyle got out of the car and made his way up the pathway. The ho use was sizeable, and had b een divided into flats.
There were several bells. He pressed for J. T redgold-the name o n his list-and waited. Of the five houses they had so
far visited, two had been unoccupied and the residents of the other three had born no resemblance to the malefactor.
Boyle waited on the step a few seconds and then pressed the bell again; a longer ring this time.
"N obo dy in," D ooley said from the p avem ent.
"Looks like it." Even as he spoke Boyle caught sight of a figure flitting across the hallway, its outline distorted by
the cobblestone glass in the door. "Wait a minute," he said.
"What is it?"
"Someb ody's in there and not answering." He pressed the first bell again, and then the others. Dooley approached up
the pathway, flicking away an over attentive wasp.
"You sure?" he said.
"I saw somebo dy in there."
"Press the other bells," Dooley suggested.
"I already did. There's somebody in there and they don't want to come to the door." He rapped on the glass. "Open
up," he announc ed. "Police."
Clever, thought Dooley; why not a loudspeaker, so heaven knows too? When the door, predictably, remained
unanswered, Boyle turned to Dooley. "Is there a side gate?"
"Y es, sir."
"T hen ge t aroun d the b ack, pronto , before he's away.
"Shouldn't we call-?"
"D o it? I'll keep watch here. If you can get in the back come through and open the front door."
Do oley moved, leaving Boyle alo ne at the front door. He rang the series of bells aga in and, cupp ing his hand to his
brow, put his face to the glass. There was no sign of movement in the hallway. Was it possible that the bird had
already flown? He backed down the path and stared up at the windows; they stared back vacuously. Ample time had
now passed for Dooley to get around the back of the house, but so far he had neither reappeared nor called. Stymied
where he stood, and nervous that his tactics had lost them their quarry, Boyle decided to follow his nose around the
back of the house.
The side gate had been left open by Dooley. Boyle advanced up the side passage, glancing through a window into an
emp ty living roo m be fore he ading around to the back do or. It was ope n. Do oley, ho wever, was no t in sight. Boyle
poc keted the photograph and the list and stepped insid e, loath to call D ooley's name for fear it alert any felon to his
presence, yet nervous of the silence. Cautious as a cat on broken glass he crept through the flat, but each room was
deserted. At the apartment door, which let on to the hallway in which he had first seen the figure, he paused. W here
had Do oley go ne? The man had apparently disapp eared from sight.
Then, a groan from beyond the do or.
"D ooley?" B oyle ventured . Another gro an. H e stepp ed into the hallway. Three m ore d oors prese nted themselves, all
were closed; other flats, presumably. On the coconut mat at the front door lay Dooley's truncheon, dropped there as
if its owner had been in the process of making his escape. Boyle swallowed his fear and walked into the body of the
hall. The complaint came again, close by. He looked around and up the stairs. There, on the half-landing, lay
Dooley. He was barely conscious. A rough attempt had been made to rip his clothes. Large portions of his flabby
lower anatomy were exposed.
"W hat's going on, Dooley?" Boyle asked, moving to the bottom of the stairs. The officer heard his voice and rolled
himself over. His bleary eyes, settling on Boyle, opened in terror.
"It's all right," B oyle reassured him. "It's only me."

Too late, Boyle registered that Dooley's gaze wasn't fixed on him at all, but on some sight over his shoulder. As he
pivoted on his heel to snatch a glance at Dooley's bugaboo a charging figure slammed into him. Winded and cursing,
Boyle was thrown off his feet. He scrabbled about on the floor for several seconds before his attacker seized hold of
him by jacket and hair and hauled him to his feet. He recognized at once the wild face that was thrust into his-the
receding hairline, the weak mouth, the hunger-but there was much too he had not anticipated. For one, the man was
naked as a babe, though scarcely so modestly endowed. For another, he was clearly aroused to fever pitch. If the
beady eye at his groin, shining up at Boyle, were not evidence enough, the hands now tearing at his clothes made the
assailant's intention perfectly ap parent.
"D ooley!" Boyle shrieked as he was thrown across the hallway. " In Christ's name! D ooley!"
His pleas were silenced as he hit the opposite wall. The wild man was at his back in half a heartbeat, smearing
Boyle's face against the wallpaper. Birds and flowers, intertwined, filled his eyes. In desperation Boyle fought back,
but the man's passion lent him ungovernable strength. With one insolent hand holding the policeman's head, he tore
at Boyle's trousers and underwear, leaving his buttocks exposed.
"Go d..." Boyle begged into the pattern of the wallpaper. "Please Go d, somebod y help me But the prayers were no
more fruitful than his struggles. He was pinned against the wall like a butterfly spread on cork, about to be pierced
through. He closed his eyes, tears of frustration running do wn his cheeks. T he assailant left off his hold o n B oyle's
head and pressed his violation home. Boyle refused to cry out. The pain he felt was not the equal of his shame.
Better perhaps that Dooley remained comatose; that this humiliation be done and finished with unwitnessed.
"Stop," he murmured into the wall, not to his attacker but to his body, urging it not to find pleasure in this outrage.
But his nerve endings were treacherous; they caught fire from the assault. Beneath the stabbing agony some
unforgivable part of him rose to the occasion.
On the stairs, Dooley hauled himself to his feet. His lumbar region, which had been weak since the car accident the
previous Christmas, had given out almost as soon as the wild man had sprung him in the hall. Now, as he descended
the stairs, the least motion caused excruciating agonies. Crippled with pain he stumbled to the bottom of the stairs
and looked, amazed, across the hallway. Could this be Boyle-he the supercilious, he the rising man, being pummeled
like a street kid in need of dope money? The sight transfixed Dooley for several seconds before he unhinged his eyes
and swung them d own to the truncheo n on the mat. H e mo ved cautiously, but the wild man was too o ccup ied with
the deflowering to notice him.
Jero me was listening to Boyle's heart. It was a loud, sed uctive b eat, and with every thrust into the man it seemed to
get louder. He wanted it: the heat of it, the life of it. His hand moved aro und to Boyle's chest and dug at the flesh.
"Give me your heart," he said. It was like a line from one of the songs.
Boyle screamed into the wall as his attacker mauled his chest. He'd seen photographs of the woman at the
laboratories; the open wound of her torso was lightning-clear in his mind's eye. Now the maniac intended the same
atrocity. Give me your heart. Panicked to the ledge of his sanity he found new stamina and began to fight afresh,
reaching around and clawing at the man's torso. Nothing-not even the bloody loss of hair from his scalp-broke the
rhythm of his thrusts, however. In extremis, Boyle attempted to insinuate one of his hands between his body and the
wall and reach between his legs to unman the bastard. As he did so, Dooley attacked, delivering a hail of truncheon
blows upon the man's head. The diversion gave Boyle precious leeway. He pressed hard against the wall. The man,
his grip on Boyle's chest slicked with blood, lost his hold. Again, Boyle pushed. This time he managed to shrug the
man off entirely The bod ies disengaged. Boyle turned, bleeding but in no danger, and watched Dooley follow the
man across the hallway, beating at his greasy blond head . He m ade little at-tempt to pro tect himself however. H is
burning eyes (Boyle had never understood the physical accuracy of that image until now) were still on the object of
his affections.
"K ill him!" B oyle said quietly as the man grinne d-grinned!-thro ugh the blows. "B reak every bone in his body!"
Even if Do oley, ho bbled as he was, had been in any fit state to ob ey the imperative, he ha d no chanc e to do so. H is
berating was interrupted by a voice from down the hallway. A woman had emerged from the flat Boyle had come
through. She too had been a victim of this marauder, to judge by her state. But Dooley's entry into the house had
clearly distracted her molester before he could do serious damage.
"Arrest him!" she said, po inting at the leering m an. "H e tried to rape me!"
Doo ley closed in to take possession of the prisoner, but Jerom e had other intentions. He put his hand in D oo ley's
face and pushed him back against the front door. The coconut mat slid from under him; he all but fell. By the time
he'd regained his balance Jerom e was up and away. B oyle made a wretched attemp t to stop him, bu t the tatters of his
trousers were wrapped abo ut his lower legs and Jerome, fleet-footed, wa s soon halfway up the stairs.
"Call for help," B oyle ordered D ooley. "And ma ke it quick."
Doo ley nodded and op ened the front door.
"Is there any way out from upstairs?" Boyle demanded o f Mrs. Mo rrisey. She shook her head. "T hen we've got the

bastard trap ped , haven't we?" he said. " Go on, D ooley!" Dooley hobbled away d own the path. "And you," he said to
the woman, "fetch something in the way of weaponry. Anything solid." The woman nodded and returned the way
she'd come, leaving Boyle slumped beside the open door. A soft breeze cooled the sweat on his face. At the car
outside D ooley was ca lling up reinforceme nts.
All too soon , Boyle thought, the ca rs would be here, and the man upstairs would be hauled away to give his
testimony. There would be no opportunity for revenge once he was in custody. The law would take its placid course,
and he, the victim, would be only a bystander. If he was ever to salvage the ruins of his manhood, now was the time.
If he didn't-if he languished here, his b ow els on fire-he wo uld never shrug off the horror he felt at his b od y's
betrayal. He must ac t now-m ust bea t the grin off his ravisher's face once and for all-or else live in self-disgust until
memory failed him.
The choice was no cho ice at all. Without further debate, he got up from his squatting position and began up the
stairs. As he reached the half-landing he realized he hadn't brought a weapon with him. He knew, however, that if he
descended again he'd lose all momentum. Prepared, in that moment, to die if necessary, he headed on up.
There was only one door open on the top landing. Through it came the sound of a radio. Downstairs, in the safety of
the hall, he heard Do oley co me in to tell him that the call had been mad e, only to break off in mid -announcement.
Ignoring the d istraction, Boyle stepp ed into the flat.
There was nobo dy there. It took Boyle a few moments only to check the kitchen, the tiny bathroom and the living
room. All were deserted. He returned to the bathroom, the window of which was open, and put his head out. The
drop to the grass of the gard en be low wa s quite m anageable. Th ere wa s an imp rint in the gro und o f the man's bod y.
He had leaped. And gone.
Boyle cursed his tardiness and hung his head. A trickle of heat ran down the inside of his leg. In the next room, the
love songs played on.
FOR Jerome, there was no forgetfulness, not this time. The encounter with Mrs. Morrisey, which had been
interrupted by Dooley, and the episode with Boyle that had followed, had all merely served to fan the fire in him.
No w, by the light of those flame s, he saw clearly what crim es he had co mmitted. He rememb ered with horrible
clarity the laboratory, the injection, the monkeys, the blood. T he acts he recalled, however (and there were many),
woke no sense of sinfulness in him. All moral consequence, all shame or remorse, was burned out by the fire that
was even no w licking his flesh to new enthusiasms.
He took refuge in a quiet cul-de-sac to make himself presentable. The clothes he had managed to snatch before
making his escape were motley but would serve to keep him from attracting unwelcome attention. As he buttoned
himself up-his body seeming to strain from its covering as if resentful of being concealed-he tried to control the
holocaust that raged between his ears. But the flames wouldn't be damp ened. His every fiber seemed alive to the flux
and flow of the world around him. The marshaled trees along the road, the wall at his back, the very paving stones
beneath his bare feet were catching a spark from him and burning now with their own fire. He grinned to see the
conflagration spread. The wo rld, in its every eager particular, grinned back.
Aroused beyond control, he turned to the wall he had been leaning against. The sun had fallen full upon it, and it was
warm ; the bricks smelled am brosial. He laid kisses on their gritty faces, his hands exploring every no ok and cranny.
Murmuring sweet nothings, he unzipped himself, found an accommodating niche, and filled it. His mind was
running with liquid pictures: mingled anatomies, female and male in one undistinguishable congress. Above him,
even the clouds had caught fire. Enthralled by their burning heads he felt the moment rise in his gristle. Breath was
short now. But the ecstasy? Surely that would go on forever.
Without warning a spasm of pain traveled down his spine from cortex to testicles and back again, convulsing him.
His hands lost grip of the brick and he finished his agonizing climax on the air as he fell across the pavement. For
several seconds he lay where he had collapsed, while the echoes of the initial spasm bounced back and forth along
his spine, diminishing with each return. He could taste blood at the back of his throat. He wasn't certain if he'd bitten
his lip or tongue, but he thought not. Above his head the birds circled on, rising lazily on a spiral of warm air. He
watched the fire in the clo uds gu tter out.
He got to his feet and looked do wn at the coinage of semen he'd spent on the pavement. For a fragile instant he
caught again a whiff of the vision he'd just had; imagined a marriage of his seed with the paving stone. What sublime
children the world might boast, he thought, if he could only mate with brick or tree. He would gladly suffer the
agonies of co nception if such miracles were po ssible. But the paving stone was unm oved by his seed's entreaties.
The vision, like the fire above him, co oled and hid its glories.
He put his bloodied mem ber away and leaned against the wall, turning the strange events of his recent life over and
over. Something fundamental was changing in him, of that he had no doub t. The rapture that had possessed him (and
would, no doubt, possess him again) was like nothing he had hitherto experienced. And whatever they had injected

into his system, it showed no signs of being discharged naturally; far from it. He could feel the heat in him still, as he
had leaving the laboratories, but this time the roar of its presence was louder than ever.
It was a new kind of life he wa s living, and the thought, though frightening, exulted him. Not once did it occur to his
spinning, eroticized brain that this new kind of life would, in time, demand a new kind of death.
CAR NEG IE had been warned by his superiors that results were expected. He was now passing the verbal beating
he'd received to those under him. It was a line of humiliation in which the greater was encouraged to kick the lesser
man, and tha t man, in turn, his lesser. Carnegie had so metimes wondered what the m an at the end o f the line too k his
ire out o n; his do g presumably.
"This miscreant is still loose, gentlemen, despite his photograph in many of this morning's newspapers and an
operating method which is, to say the least, insolent. We will catch him, of course, but let's get the bastard before we
have another murder on our hands-"
The phone rang. Boyle's replacement, Migeon, picked it up, while Carnegie concluded his pep talk to the assembled
officers.
"I want him in the next twenty-four hours, gentlemen. That's the time scale I've been given, and that's what we've
got. T wenty-four hours."
Migeon interrup ted. "Sir? It's Johannson. He sa ys he's got so mething for you. It's urgent."
"Right." The inspector claimed the receiver. "Carnegie.
The voice at the other end was soft to the point of inaudibility. "Carnegie," Johannson said, "we've been right
through the laboratory, dug up every p iece o f informa tion we could find on Dance and W elles's tests-"
"And?"
"W e've also analyze d traces of the agent fro m the hypo they used on the suspect. I think we 've found the Boy,
Carnegie
"W hat boy?" Carnegie wanted to know. He found Jo hann son's obfuscation irritating.
"T he B lind B oy Carnegie."
"And?"
For some inexplicable reason Carnegie was certain the man smiled down the phone before replying: "I think perhaps
you d better come down and see for yourself. Sometime around noon suit you?"

JOHANN SON could have been one of history's greatest poisoners. He had all the requisite qualifications. A tidy
mind (poisoners were, in Carnegie's experience, domestic paragons), a patient nature (poison could take time) and,
most importantly, an encyclopedic knowledge of toxicology. Watching him at work, which Carnegie had done on
two previous cases, was to see a subtle man at his subtle craft, and the spectacle made Carnegie's blood run cold.
Johannson had installed himself in the laboratory on the top floor, where Doctor Dance had been murdered, rather
than use police facilities for the investigation, because, as he explained to Carnegie, much of the equipment the
Hume o rganization b oasted was simply not ava ilable elsewhere. His dom inion o ver the place, acco mpa nied b y his
two assistants, had, however, transformed the laboratory from the clutter left by the experimenters to a dream of
order. Only the monkeys remained a constant. Try as he might Johannson could not control their behavior.
"W e didn't have much difficulty finding the drug used on your man," Johannson said, "we simply cross-checked
traces remaining in the hypodermic with materials found in the room. In fact, they seem to have been manufacturing
this stuff, or variations on the theme, for some time. The people here claim they know nothing about it, of course.
I'm inclined to believe them. What the good doctors were doing here was, I'm sure, in the nature of a personal
experiment."
"What sort of experiment?"
Johannson took off his spectacles and set about cleaning them with the tongue of his red tie. "At first, we thought
they were developing som e kind of hallucinogen," he said. "In some regards the agent used on your man resem bles a
narco tic. In fact-method s apart-I think they m ade some very exciting discoveries. D evelo pme nts which take us into
entirely new territory."
"It's not a drug then?"
"O h, yes, of co urse it's a drug," Jo hannson said, replacing the spectacles, "but one created fo r a very sp ecific
purp ose. See for yourself."
Johannson led the way across the laboratory to the row of monkeys' cages. Instead of being confined separately, the
toxicologist had seen fit to open the interconnecting doors between one cage and the next, allowing the animals free
access to gather in groups. The consequence was absolutely plain-the animals were engaged in an elaborate series of
sexual acts. Why, Carnegie wondered, did monkeys perpetually perform obscenities? It was the same torrid display

whenever he'd taken his offspring, as children, to Regent's Park Zoo; the ape enclosure elicited one emb arrassing
question upon another. He'd stopped taking the children after a while. He simply found it too mortifying.
"H aven't they got anything better to do?" he asked of Johannson, glancing away and then back at a menage a' trois
that was so intima te the eye could not ascribe m emb er to m onke y.
"Believe me," Johannson smirked, "this is mild by comparison with much of the behavior we've seen from them
since we gave them a shot of the agent. From that point on they neglected all normal behavior patterns. They
bypassed the arousal signals, the courtship rituals. They no longer show any interest in food. They don't sleep. They
have become sexual obsessive. All other stimuli are forgotten. Unless the agent is naturally discharged, I suspect
they are going to screw them selves to death."
Carnegie looked along the rest of the cages. The sam e porno graphic scen es' were being played out in each one. Ma ss
rape, homosexual liaisons, fervent and ecstatic masturbation.
"It's no wond er the d octors mad e a secret pro ject of their discovery," Jo hannson went on. "T hey were on to
something tha t could have m ade them a fortune. An ap hrod isiac that actually wo rks."
"An aphrodisiac?"
"M ost are useless, of course. Rhinocero s horn, live eels in cream sauce: symbolic stuff. They're designed to arouse
by asso ciation."
Carnegie remembered the hunger in Jerome's eyes. It was echoed here in the monkeys'. Hunger, and the desperation
that hunger brings.
"And the ointments too , all useless. C antharis vesticato ra-"W hat's that?" "Y ou know the stuff as Spanish fly,
perhaps? It's a paste
made from a beetle. Again, useless. At best these things are irritants. But this..." He picked up a vial of colorless
fluid. "T his is dam n near genius."
"T hey do n't look too hap py with it to m e."
"Oh, it's still crude," J ohannso n said. "I think the researchers were greedy and m oved into tests on living subjects a
goo d two or three years before it was wise to do so. T he stuff is almost lethal as it stands, no doubt of that. B ut it
could be made to work, given time. You see, they've sidestepped the mechanical problems. This stuff operates
directly on the sexual imaginatio n, on the libido. If you aro use the m ind, the b ody fo llows. T hat's the trick o f it."
A rattling of the wire mesh close b y drew Carnegie's attentio n from Joha nnson's pale features. O ne of the female
monkeys, apparently not satisfied with the attentions of several males, was spread-eagled against her cage, her
nimble fingers re aching for Ca rnegie. Her spou ses, not to be left loveless, had taken to sodo my. "B lind B oy?" said
Carnegie. "Is that Jerome?"
"It's Cupid, isn't it?" Johannson said:
"Lo ve loo ks not with the eyes but with the mind ,
And therefore is winged Cupid painted blind.
It's Midsumm er Night's Dream."
"The b ard was never my strongest suit," said Carnegie. He went back to staring at the female monkey "And
Jerome?" he said.
"H e has the agent in his system. A sizeab le dose."
"So he's like this lot!"
"I would presume-his intellectual capacities being greater-that the agent may not be able to work in quite such an
unfettered fashion. But, having said that, sex can make monkeys out of the best of us, can't it?" Johannson allowed
himself a half-smile at the notion. "All our so-called higher concerns become second ary to the pursuit. For a short
time sex makes us obsessive. We can perform, or at least think we can perform, what with hindsight may seem
extrao rdinary feats."
"I do n't think there's anything so extraordinary about ra pe , Carnegie com me nted , attemp ting to stem J ohannson's
rhapsody But the other man would not be subdued.
"Sex without end, without comp romise or apolo gy," he said. "Imagine it. Th e dream o f Casanova ."
THE world had seen so many Ages: the Age of Enlightenment; of Reformation; of Reason. Now, at last, the Age of
Desire. And after this, an end to Ages; an end, perhaps, to everything. For the fires that were being stoked now were
fiercer than the innocent world suspected. They were terrible fires, fires without end, which would illuminate the
world in one last, fierce light.
So W elles thought as he lay in his bed. He had been conscious for several hours, but had chosen not to signify such.
W henever a nurse came to his room be would clamp his eyes closed and slow the rhythm of his breath. He knew he

could not keep the illusion up for long, but the hours gave him a while to think through his itinerary from here. H is
first move had to be back to the laboratories. There were papers there he had to shred, tapes to wipe clean. From now
on he was determined that every scrap of information about Project Blind Boy exist solely in his head. That way he
would have complete control over his masterwork, and nobody could claim it from him.
He had never had much interest in making money from the discovery, although he was well aware of how lucrative a
workable aphrodisiac would be; he had never given a fig for material wealth. His initial motivation for the
development of the drug-which they had ch anced upon quite by accide nt while testing an agent to aid
schizophrenics-had been investigative. But his motives had matured through their months of secret work. He had
come to think of himself as the bringer of the millennium. He would not have anyone attempt to snatch that sacred
role from him.
So he thought, lying in his b ed, wa iting for a m ome nt to slip away.
As he walked the streets Jerom e would have happily affirmed W elles's vision. Perh aps he, of all men, was most
eager to welcome the Age of Desire. He saw its portents everywhere: on advertising billboards and cinema
marquees, in shop windows, on television screens-everywhere, the body as merchandise. Where flesh was not being
used to market artifacts of steel and stone, those artifacts were taking on its properties. Automobiles passed him by
with every voluptuous attribute but breath-their sinuous bodywork gleamed, their interiors invited plushy. The
buildings beleaguered him with sexual puns: spires, pa ssageways, shado wed plazas with white-water fountains.
Beneath the raptures of the shallow-the thousand trivial distractions he encountered in street and square-he sensed
the ripe life of the body informing every particular.
The spectacle kept the fire in him well stoked. It was all that will po wer co uld do to ke ep him from p ressing his
attentions on every creature that he met eyes with. A few seemed to sense the heat in him and gave him wide berth.
Do gs sense d it too. Several follow ed him , aroused b y his arousal. Flies orbited his he ad in sq uadrons. B ut his
growing ease with his condition gave him some rudimentary control over it. He knew that to make a public display
of his ardor would bring the law down upo n him, and that in turn would hinder his adventures. Soon enough, the fire
that he had begun would spread. Then he would emerge from hiding and bathe in it freely. Until then, discretion was
best.
He had on occasion bought the company of a young woman in Soho; he went to find her now. The afternoon was
stiflingly hot, but he felt no weariness. He had not eaten since the previous evening, but he felt no hunger. Indeed, as
he climbed the narrow stairway up to the room on the first floor which Angela had once occupied, he felt as primed
as an athlete, glowing with health. The immaculately dressed and wall-eyed pimp who usually occupied a place at
the top of the stairs was absent. Jerome simply went to the girl's room and knocked. There was no reply. He rapped
again, more urgently. The noise brought an early middle-aged woman to the door at the end of the landing.
"What do you want?"
"T he wo man," he re plied simply.
"Angela's go ne. An d you'd better get out of here too in that state. Th is isn't a flopho use."
"W hen will she be back?" he asked, keeping as tight a leash as he could on his appetite.
The wom an, who was as tall as Jerome and half as heavy again as his wasted frame, advanced toward him. "T he girl
won't be back," she said, "so you get the he ll out of here, before I call Isaiah."
Jerome looked at the woman. She shared Angela's profession, no doubt, if not her youth or prettiness. He smiled at
her. "I can hear your heart," he said.
"I told youBefore she cou ld finish the w ords Jero me m oved do wn the landing toward her. She wasn't intimidated by his
approach, merely repulsed.
"If I call Isaiah, you'll be sorry," she informed him . The pac e of her heartbeat had risen, he co uld hear it.
"I'm burning," he said.
She fro wned . She was clearly losing this b attle of wits. "Stay away from me," she told . "I'm warning you."
The heartbeat was getting more rap id still. Tile rhythm, b uried in her sub stance, drew him on. From that so urce: all
life, all heat.
"Give me your heart," he said.
"Isaiah!"
Nobody came running at her shout, however. Jerome gave her no opportunity to cry out a second time. He reached
to embrace her, clamping a hand over her mouth. She let fly a volley of blows against him, but the pain only fanned
the flames. He was brighter by the moment. His every orifice let onto the furnace in belly and loins and head. Her
superior bulk was of no advantage against suc h fervor. He pushe d her against the wall-the beat o f her hea rt loud in
his ears-and beg an to app ly kisses to her neck, tearing her dress open to free her breasts.

"D on't shout," he said, trying to sound persuasive. "There's no harm m eant."
She sh ook her head an d said, "I wo n't," against his palm . He to ok his hand from her mo uth and she dragged in
several desp erate breaths. W here was Isaiah? she thought. Not far, surely. Fearing for her life if she tried to resist
this interloper-how his eyes shone!-she gave up any pretense to resistance and let him have his way. Men's supply of
passion, she knew from long experience, was easily depleted. Though they might threaten to move earth and heaven
too, ha lf an hour later their boasts would be dam p sheets and resentm ent. If worst came to wo rst, she co uld tolerate
his inane talk of burning; she'd hea rd far o bscener bedro om c hat. As to the pro ng he w as even now attemp ting to
press into her, it and its comical like held no surprises for her.
Jerome wanted to touch the heart in her, wanted to see it splash up into his face, to bathe in it. He put his hand to her
breast and felt the beat of her under his palm.
"Y ou like that, do you?" she said as he pressed against her bo som. "You're no t the first,"
He clawed her skin.
"Gently, sweetheart," she chided him, looking over his shoulder to see if there was any sign of Isaiah. "Be gentle.
This is the only b ody I've got."
He ignored her. His nails drew blood.
"Don't do that," she said.
"W ants to be out," he replied digging deeply, and it suddenly dawned on her that this was no love-game he was
playing.
"Stop it," she said, as he began to tear at her. This time she screamed.
Do wnstairs, and a sh ort way along the street, Isaiah dropped the slice o f tarte francaise he'd just bo ught and ran to
the door. It wasn't the first time his sweet tooth had tempted him from his post, but-unless he was quick to undo the
damage-it might very well be his last. There were terrible noises from the landing. He raced up the stairs. The scene
that met his eyes was in every way worse than that his imagination had conjured. Simone was trapped against the
wall beside her do or with a man battened upo n her. Blood was com ing from som ewhere between them, he couldn 't
see where.
Isaiah yelled. Jerome, hands bloody, looked around from his labors as a giant in a Savile Row suit reached for him.
It took Jerome vital seconds to uproot himself from the furrow, by which time the man was upon him. Isaiah took
hold of him, and dragged him off the woman. She took shelter, sobbing, in her room.
"Sick bastard," Isaiah said, launching a fusillade of punches. Jerome reeled. But he was on fire, and unafraid. In a
moment's respite he leaped at his man like an angered baboon. Isaiah, taken unawares, lost balance, and fell back
against one of the doors, which opened inward against his weight. He collapsed into a squalid lavatory, his head
striking the lip of the toilet bowl as he went down. The impact disoriented him, and he lay on the stained linoleum
groaning, legs akimbo. Jerome could hear his blood, eager in his veins; could smell sugar on his breath. It tempted
him to stay. But his instinct for self-preservation counseled otherwise; Isaiah was already making an attempt to stand
up again. B efore he co uld get to his feet Jerom e turned ab out and m ade a getaway down the stairs.
The do g day met him at the doorstep, and he smiled. The street wanted him more than the woman on the landing,
and he was eager to oblige. He started out onto the pavement, his erection still pressing from his trousers. Behind
him he heard the giant pounding down the stairs. He took to his heels, laughing. The fire was still uncurbed in him,
and it lent speed to his feet. He ran do wn the street not caring if Sugar B reath was following o r not. Pedestrians,
unwilling in this dispa ssionate age to register m ore tha n casual interest in the blood-sp attered satyr, parted to let him
pass. A few pointed, assuming him an actor perhaps. Most took no notice at all. He made his way through a maze of
back streets, aware without needing to look that Isaiah was still on his heels.
Perhaps it was accident that brought him to the street market; perhaps, and more probably, it was that the swelter
carried the mingled scent of meat and fruit to his nostrils and he wanted to bathe in it. The narrow thoroughfare was
thronged with purchasers, sightseers and stalls heaped with merchandise. He dove into the crowd happily, brushing
against buttock and thigh, meeting the plaguing gaze of fellow flesh on every side. Such a day! He and his prick
could scarcely believe their luck.
Behind him he heard Isaiah shout. H e picked up his pace, head ing for the most dense ly pop ulated area o f the market,
where he could lose himself in the hot press of people. Each contract was a painful ecstasy. Each climax-and they
came one upon the other as he pressed through the cro wd-was a dry spasm in his system. His back ached , his balls
ached. But what was his body now? Just a plinth for that singular monument, his prick. Head was nothing; mind was
nothing. His arms we re simp ly made to bring love close , his legs to carry the d emanding rod any place where it
might find satisfaction . He p ictured himself as a walking erection, the world gaping on every side. Flesh, brick, steel,
he did n't care-he would ravish it all.
Suddenly, without his seeking it, the crowd parted, and he found himself off the main thoroughfare and in a narrow
street. Sunlight po ured betwe en the b uildings, its zeal ma gnified. H e was about to turn back to join the crowd aga in

when he caught a scent and sight that drew him on. A short way down the heat-drenched street three shirtless young
men were standing amid piles of fruit crates, each containing dozens of baskets of strawberries. There had been a
glut of the fruit that year, and in the relentless heat much of it had begun to soften and rot. The trio of workers was
going through the baskets, sorting bad fruit from good , and throwing the spoiled strawberries into the gutter. The
smell in the narrow space was overpowering, a sweetness of such strength it would have sickened any interloper
other than Jerome, whose senses had lost all capacity for revulsion or rejection. The world was the world was the
world; he would take it, as in marriage, for better or worse. He stood watching the spectacle entranced: the sweating
fruit sorters bright in the fall of sun, hands, arms and torsoes spattered with scarlet juice; the air mazed with every
nectar-seeking insect; the discarded fruit heaped in the gutter in seeping mounds. Engaged in their sticky labors, the
sorters didn't even see him at first. Then one o f the three looked up and took in the extraordinary creature watching
them. The grin on his face died as he me t Jerome's eyes.
"What the hell?"
Now the other two looked up from their work.
"Sweet," said Jerome. He could hear their hearts tremble.
"Lo ok at him," said the youngest of the three, pointing at Jerome's groin. "Fuck ing exp osing himself."
They stood still in the sunlight, he and they, while the wasps whirled around the fruit and, in the narrow slice of blue
summer sky between the roofs, birds passed over. Jerome wanted the moment to go on forever; his too-naked head
tasted Eden here.
And then, the dream broke. He felt a shadow on his back. One of the sorters dropped the basket he was sorting
through; the decayed fruit broke open on the gravel. Jerome fro wned and half-turned . Isaiah ha d found the street. H is
weapon was steel and shone. It crossed the space between him and Jerome in one short second. Jerome felt an ache
in his side as the knife slid into him.
"Christ," the young man said and began to run. H is two brothers, unwilling to be witnesses at the scene of a
wounding, hesitated only moments longer before following.
The pain mad e Jero me cry out, but nob ody in the noisy market heard him. Isaiah withdrew the blade; heat cam e with
it. He mad e to stab again but Jerome was too fast for the spoiler. He moved o ut of range and staggered across the
street. T he wo uld-be assassin, fearful that Jerome's cries would draw too m uch attention, moved quickly in pursuit to
finish the lob. But the tarmac was slick with rotted fruit, and his fine suede shoes had less grip than Jerome's bare
feet. The gap between them widened by a pace.
"No you do n't," Isaiah said, determined not to let his humiliator escape. H e pushed over a tower of fruit cratesbaskets toppled and strewed their contents across Jerome's path. Jerome hesitated, to take in the bouquet of bruised
fruit. The indulgence almost killed him. Isaiah closed in, ready to take the man. Jerome, his system taxed to near
eruption by the stimulus of pain, watched the blade come close to opening up his belly. His mind conjured the
wound : the abdomen slit-the heat spilling out to join the bloo d of the strawberries in the gutter. The thought was so
tempting. He almost wanted it.
Isaiah had killed before, twice. He knew the word less vocabulary of the act, and he could see the invitation in his
victim's eyes. Happy to oblige, he came to meet it, knife at the ready. At the last possible moment Jerome recanted,
and instead of presenting himself for slitting, threw a blow at the giant. Isaiah ducked to avoid it and his feet slid in
the mush. The knife fled from his hand and fell among the debris of baskets and fruit. Jerome turned away as the
hunter-the advantag e lost-stoo ped to loca te the knife. But his prey was gone be fore his ham-fisted grip had found it;
lost again in the crowd-filled streets. He had no op portunity to pocket the knife before the uniform stepped out of the
crow d and joined him in the hot passageway.
"W hat's the story?" the policeman demanded, looking down at the knife. Isaiah followed his gaze. The bloodied
blade wa s black with flies.
IN his office Inspector Carnegie sipped at his hot chocolate, his third in the past hour, and watched the processes of
dusk. He had always wanted to be a detective, right from his earliest remem berings. And , in those remem berings,
this had always been a charged and magical hour. Night descending on the city; myriad evils putting on their glad
rags and coming o ut to play. A time for vigilance, for a new m oral stringency.
But as a child he had failed to imagine the fatigue that twilight invariab ly brought. He was tired to his b ones, and if
he snatched any sleep in the next few hours he knew it wo uld be here, in his chair, with his feet up on the desk amid
a clutter of plastic cups.
The pho ne rang. It was Johannson.
"Still at work?" he said, impressed by Johannson's dedication to the job. It was well after nine. Perhaps Johannson
didn't have a home worth calling such to go back to either.
"I heard our man had a busy day," Johannson said.

"T hat's right. A p rostitute in S oho, then go t himself stab bed ."
"He got through the cordon, I gather?"
"These things happen," Carnegie replied, too tired to be testy. "What can I do for you?"
"I just though t you'd want to kno w: the monke ys have started to die."
The words stirred Carnegie from his fatigue-stupor. "How many?" he asked.
"T hree fro m fourteen so far. But the rest will be dea d by d awn, I'd guess."
"W hat's killing them ? Exhaustion?" Ca rnegie recalled the d esperate saturnalia he 'd seen in the cages. W hat anim alhuman or otherwise-could keep up such revelry without cracking up?
"It's not physical," Johannson said. "Or at least not in the way you're implying. We'll have to wait for the dissection
results before we get any detailed explanations-"
"Your best guess?"
"Fo r what it's worth..." Johannson said, "... which is quite a lot: I think they're going bang."
"What?"
"Cerebral overload of some kind. Their brains are simply giving out. The agent doesn't disperse you see. It feeds on
itself The more fevered they get, the more of the drug is produced; the more of the drug there is, the more fevered
they get. It's a vicio us circle. Hotter and hotter, wilder and wilder. Eventually the system can't take it, and sudd enly
I'm up to my armpits in dead monkeys." The smile came back into the voice again, cold and wry. 'Not that the others
let that spo il their fun. N ecrophilia's quite the fashio n down here."
Carnegie peered at his cooling hot chocolate. It had acquired a thin skin which puckered as he touched the cup. "So
it's just a matter of time?" he said.
"Before our man goes for bust? Yes, I'd think so.
"All right. Th ank you for the update. Keep me posted ."
"You want to come down here and view the remains?"
"M onke y corp ses I can do without, thank you."
Johannso n laughed. C arnegie put down the receiver. W hen he turned back to the window , night had well and truly
fallen.
IN the laboratory Johannson crossed to the light switch by the door. In the time he'd been calling Carnegie the last of
the daylight had fled. H e saw the blow that felled him coming a mere heartbeat before it landed; it caught him acro ss
the side of his neck. One of his vertebrae snapped and his legs buckled. He collapsed without reaching the light
switch. But by the time he hit the ground the distinction between day and night was academic.
W elles didn't bother to check whether his blow had been lethal or not; time was at a premium. He stepped over the
bod y and headed ac ross to the bench where Johannson had been working. There, lying in a circle of lamp light as if
for the final act of a simian tragedy, lay a dead monkey. It had clearly perished in a frenzy. Its face was knitted up;
mouth wide and spittle-stained; eyes fixed in a final Took of alarm. Its fur had been pulled out in tufts in the throes
of its cop ulations. Its bod y, wasted with exertion, was a mass of contusions. It took W elles half a m inute of study to
recognize the implications of the corpse, and of the other two he now saw lying on a nearby bench.
"Lo ve kills," he murmured to him self philosophically and began his systematic destruction o f Blind Bo y.
I'M dying, Jerome thought. I'm dying of terminal joy The thought amused him. It was the only thought in his head
which mad e muc h sense. Since his enco unter with Isaiah and the escap e from the po lice that had followed, he could
remember little with any coherence. The hours of hiding and nursing his wounds-of feeling the heat grow again, and
of discharging it-had lo ng since merged into one m idsum mer d ream , from which, he knew with plea surab le
certainty, only death would wake him. The blaze was devouring him utterly, from the entrails out. If he were to be
eviscerated no w, what would the witnesses find? O nly embers and ashes.
Yet still his one-eyed friend demanded more. Still, as he wove his way back to the laboratories-where else for a
made man to go when the stitches slipped but back to the first heat?-still the grids gaped at him seductively, and
every brick wall offered up a hund red gritty invitations.
The night was balmy: a night for love songs and romance. In the questionable privacy of a parking lot a few blocks
from his destination he saw two people having sex in the back of a car, the doors open to accommod ate limbs and
draft. Jerome paused to watch the ritual, enthralled as ever by the tangle of bodies and the sound-so loud it was like
thunder-of twin hearts beating to one escalating rhythm. Watching, his rod grew eager.
The female saw him first and alerted her partner to the wreck of a human being who was watching them with such
childish delight. The male lo oked aro und fro m his gro pings to stare. D o I bu rn, Jero me wondered? D oes m y hair
flame? At the last, does the illusion gain substance? To judge by the look on their faces, the answer was surely no.
They were not in awe of him, merely angered and revolted.

"I'm on fire," he told them.
The male got to his feet and spat at Jerome. He almost expected the spittle to turn to steam as it approached him but
instead it landed on his face and upper chest as a cooling shower.
"G o to hell," the wo man said. "Leav e us alone."
Jerome shook his head. The m ale warned him that another step would oblige him to break Jerome's head. It
disturbed our man not a jot; no words, no blows, could silence the imperative of the rod.
Their hearts, he realized, as he moved toward them, no longer beat in tandem.
CARN EGIE consulted the map, five years out of date now, on his office wall to pinpoint the location of the attack
that had just been reported. Neither of the victims had come to serious harm, apparently. The arrival of a carload of
revelers had dissuaded Jerome (it wa s unqu estiona bly Jerome ) from lingering. Now the area was being flooded with
officers, half a dozen of them armed. In a matter of minutes every street in the vicinity of the attack would be
cordo ned off. Unlike Soho, which had be en crowd ed, the area wo uld furnish the fugitive with few hiding places.
Carnegie pinpointed the location of the attack and realized that it was within a few blocks of the laboratories. No
accident, surely. The man was heading back to the scene of his crime. Wounded, and undoubtedly on the verge of
collapse-the lovers had described a man who loo ked more dead than alive-Jerome would pro bably be picked up
before he reached home. B ut there was always the risk of his slipping through the net and getting to the labo ratories.
Johannso n was working there, alone. The guard on the building wa s, in these stra itened times, necessarily small.
Carnegie picked up the phone and dialed through to the Johannson. The phone rang at the other end but nobody
picked it up. The man's gone home, Carnegie thought, happy to be relieved of his concern. It's ten-fifty at night and
he's earned his rest. Just as he was about to put the receiver down, however, it was picked up at the other end.
"Johannson?"
Nobody replied.
"Johannson? This is Carnegie." And still, no reply. "Answer me, damn it. Who is this?"
In the laboratories the receiver was forsaken. It was not replaced on the cradle hut left to lie on the bench. Down the
buzzing line, C arnegie could clearly hear the mo nkeys, their voices shrill.
"Johannson?" Carnegie demanded. "Are you there? Johannson?"
But the apes screamed on.
W ELLE S had built two bonfires of the Blind Boy material in the sinks and then set them alight. They flared up
enthusiastically. Smoke, heat and ashes filled the large room, thickening the air. When the fires were fairly raging he
threw all the tapes he could lay hands upon into the conflagration, and added all of Johannson's notes for good
measure. Several of the tapes had already gone from the files, he noted. But all they could show any thief was some
teasing scenes of transformation. The heart of the secret remained his. With the procedures and formulae now
destroyed, it only remained to wash the small amounts of remaining agent down the drain and kill and incinerate the
animals.
He prep ared a series o f lethal hypode rmics, going about the business with uncharacteristic orderliness. T his
systematic destruction gratified him. He felt no regret at the way things had turned out. From that first moment of
panic, when he'd helplessly watched the Blind Boy serum work its awesome effects upon Jerome, to this final
elimination of all that had gone before had been, he now saw, one steady process of wiping clean. With these fires he
brought an end to the pre tense o f scientific inquiry. After this he was indisputably the Apo stle of D esire, its Jo hn in
the Wilderness. The thought blinded him to any other. Careless of the monkeys' scratching he hauled them one by
one from their cages to deliver the killing dose. He had dispatched three, and was opening the cage of the fourth,
when a figure appeared in the doorway of the laboratory. Through the smoky air it was impossible to see who. The
surviving monkeys seemed to recognize him, however. They left off their couplings and set up a din of welcome.
W elles stood still and waited for the newcomer to make his move.
"I'm dying," said Jerome.
W elles had not expected this. O f all the people he had anticipa ted here, Jerome was the last.
"Did you hear me?" the man wanted to know.
W elles nodded. "W e're all dying, Jerome. Life is a slow disease, no more nor less. But such a light, eh? in the
going."
"Y ou knew this wo uld happe n," Jerome said. " Yo u knew the fire wo uld eat me aw ay.
"N o," came the sob er rep ly. "No, I did n't. Really."
Jerome walked out of the door frame and into the murky light. He was a wasted shambles, a patchwork man, blood
on his body, fire in his eyes. But Welles knew better than to trust the apparent vulnerability of this scarecrow. The
agent in his system had made him capable of superhuman acts. He had seen Dance torn op en with a few nonchalant

strokes. Tact was required. Though clearly close to death, Jerome was still formidable.
"I didn't intend this, Jerome," W elles said, attemp ting to tam e the trem or in his voice. " I wish, in a way, I could
claim that I had . But I wasn't that farsighted. It's taken me time and pain to see the future plainly."
The burning man watched him, gaze intent.
"Such fires, Je rome, waiting to be lit."
"I know..." Jerome replied. "Believe me... I know"
"Y ou and I, we are the end o f the world."
The wretched mo nster pondered this for a while, and then nodded slowly. Welles softly exhaled a sigh of relief. The
deathbed diplomacy was working. But he had little time to waste with talk. If Jerome was here, could the authorities
be far behind?
"I have urgent work to do, my friend," he said calmly. "Would you think me uncivil if I continued with it?"
W ithout wa iting for a re ply he unlatched ano ther cage and hauled the condemned mo nkey out, expertly turning its
body around to facilitate the injection. The animal convulsed in his arms for a few moments, then died. Welles
disengaged its wizened fingers from his shirt and tossed the corpse and the discharged hypodermic on to the bench,
turning with an executioner's economy to claim his next victim.
"W hy?" Jerome asked, staring at the animal's open eyes.
"Act of mercy," Welles replied, picking up another primed hypodermic. "You can see how they're suffering." He
reached to unlatch the next cage.
"Don't," Jerome said.
"N o time for sentim ent," W elles rep lied. "I beg yo u, an end to that."
Sentiment, Jerome thought, muddily remembering the songs on the radio that had first rewoken the fire in him.
Didn't Welles understand that the processes of heart and head and groin were indivisible? That sentiment, however
trite, might lead to undiscovered regions? He wanted to tell the doctor that, to explain all that he had seen and all that
he had loved in these desperate hours. But somewhere between mind and tongue the explanations absconded. All he
could say, to state the empathy he felt for all the suffering world, was: "Don't," as Welles unlocked the next cage.
The doctor igno red him and reache d into the wire-mesh cell. It contained three anima ls. He took hold of the nearest
and drew it, protesting, from its companions' embraces. Without doubt it knew what fate awaited it; a flurry of
screeches signaled its terror.
Jerome couldn't stomach this casual disposal. He mo ved, the wound in his side a torment, to prevent the killing.
W elles, distracted by Jerome's advance, lost hold of his wriggling charge. The monkey scampe red away across the
bench top s. As he went to recap ture it the prisoners in the cage be hind him too k their chance and slip ped out.
"Damn you," Welles yelled at Jerome, "don't you see we've no time? Don't you understand?"
Jero me un dersto od everything , and yet nothing. The fever he and the anim als share d he understood; its purpose, to
transform the world, he understood too. But why it should end like this-that joy, that vision-why it should all come
down to a sordid room filled with smoke and pain, to frailty, to despair? That he did not comprehend. Nor, he now
realized, did W elles, who had b een the architect of these co ntradictions.
As the doctor made a snatch for one of the escaping monkeys, Jerome crossed swiftly to the remaining cages and
unlatched them all. The animals leaped to their freedom. Welles had succeeded with his recapture, however, and had
the protesting monkey in his grip, about to deliver the panacea. Jerome made toward him.
"Let it be," he yelled.
W elles pressed the hypodermic into the monkey's body, but before he could depress the plunger Jerome had pulled
at his wrist. The hypodermic spat its poison into the air and then fell to the ground. The monkey, wresting itself free,
followed.
Jerome pulled Welles close. "I told you to let it be," he said.
W elles's response was to drive his fist into Jerome's wounded flank. Tears of pain spurted from his eyes, but he
didn't release the doctor. The stimulus, unpleasant as it was, could not dissuade him from holding that beating heart
close. He wished, embracing Welles like a prodigal, that he could ignite himself, that the dream of burning flesh he
had endured would now become a reality, consuming maker and made in one cleansing flame. But his flesh was
only flesh; his bone, bone. W hat mira cles he had se en had been a priva te revelation, and now there was no time to
communicate their glories or their horrors. What he had seen would die with him, to be rediscovered (perhaps) by
some future self, only to be forgotten and discovered again. Like the story of love the radio had told; the same joy
lost and found, found and lost. He stared at Welles with new comprehension dawning, hearing still the terrified beat
of the man's heart. The doctor was wrong. If he left the man to live, he would come to know his error. They were not
presagers of the millennium. They had both been dreaming.
"D on't kill me," W elles pleaded. "I d on't want to die."
More fool you, Jerome thought, and let the man go.

Welles's bafflement was plain. He couldn't believe that his appeal for life had been answered. Anticipating a blow
with every step he took he backed away from Jerome, who simply turned his back o n the doctor and walked away.
From do wnstairs there came a shout, and then many shouts. Police, Welles guessed. They had presumably found the
body of the officer who'd been on guard at the door. In moments only they would be coming up the stairs. There was
no time now for finishing the tasks he'd come here to perform. He had to be away before they arrived.
On the floor below Carnegie watched the armed officers disappear up the stairs. There was a faint smell of burning
in the air. H e feared the worst.
I am the man who comes after the act, he thought to himself. I am perpetually upon the scene when the best of the
action is over. Used as he was to waiting, patient as a loyal dog, this time he could not hold his anxieties in check
while the others went ahe ad. Disregarding the voices advising him to wa it, be began up the stairs.
The labo ratory o n the top floor was empty but for the monke ys and Joha nnson's corpse. The toxicologist lay on his
face where he bad fallen, neck broken. The emergency exit, which let on to the fire escape, was open; smoky air was
being sucked out through it. As Carnegie stepped away from Johannson's body officers were already on the fire
escape calling to their colleagues below to seek out the fugitive.
"Sir?"
Carnegie looked across at the mustachioed individual who had approached him.
"What is it?"
The officer pointed to the other end of the laboratory, to the test chamber. There was somebody at the window.
Carnegie recognized the features, even though they were much changed. It was Jerome. At first he thought the man
was watching him, but a short perusal scotched that idea. Jerome was staring, tears on his face, at his own reflection
in the smeared glass. Even as Carnegie watched, the face retreated with the gloom of the chamber.
Other officers had noticed the man too. They were moving do wn the length of the laboratory, taking up positions
behind the benches where they had a good line on the door, weapons at the ready. Carnegie had been present in such
situations before; they had their own, terrible momentum. Unless he intervened, there would be blood.
"N o," he said, " hold your fire."
He presse d the p rotesting officer aside an d began to walk down the laborato ry, making no attemp t to conceal his
advance. He walked past sinks in which the remains of Blind Boy guttered, past the bench under which, a short age
ago, they'd found the d ead Dance. A monkey, its head bo wed, dragged itself across his path, app arently deaf to his
proximity. He let it find a hole to die in, then moved on to the chamber door. It was ajar. He reached for the handle.
Behind him the laboratory had fallen completely silent; all eyes were on him. He pulled the door open. Fingers
tightened on triggers. There was no attack however. Carnegie stepped inside.
Jerome was standing against the opposite wall. If he saw Carnegie enter, or heard him, he made no sign of it. A dead
mon key lay at his feet, one hand still grasping the hem of his trousers. Another whimpered in the corner, holding its
head in its hands.
"Jerome?"
W as it Carnegie's imagination, or co uld he smell strawbe rries?
Jerome blinked.
"Y ou're under arrest," C arnegie said. H endrix would ap preciate the iro ny of that, he thought. Tile man m oved his
bloo dy hand from the stab woun d in his side to the front of his trousers and bega n to stroke himself.
"To o late," Jerome said. He could feel the last fire rising in him. Even if this intruder chose to cross the chamber and
arrest him now, the intervening seconds would deny him his capture. Death was here. And what was it, now that he
saw it clearly? Just another seduction, another sweet darkness to be filled up, and pleasured and made fertile.
A spasm b egan in his perineum, and lightning traveled in two directions from the spo t, up his ro d and up his sp ine. A
laugh b egan in his throa t.
In the co rner o f the chambe r the mo nkey, hearing Jerom e's humo r, began to whimper again. The sound mome ntarily
claimed Carnegie's attention, and when his gaze flitted back to Jerome the short-sighted eyes had closed, the hand
had droppe d, and he was dead, stand ing against the wall. For a sh ort time the bo dy defied gravity. Then, gracefully
the legs buckled and Jerome fell forward. He was, Carnegie saw, a sack of bones, no more. It was a wonder the man
had lived so long.
Cautiously, he crossed to the body and put his finger to the man's neck. There was no pulse. The remnants of
Jero me's last laugh remained on his fac e, how ever, re fusing to d ecay.
"Tell me..." Carnegie whispered to the man, sensing that despite his preemption he had missed the moment; that
once again he was, and perhaps would always be, merely a witness of consequences. "Tell me. What was the joke?"
But the blind boy, as is the wont of his clan, wasn't telling.

The Forbidden

Like a flawless tragedy, the elegance of which structure is lost upon those suffering in it, the perfect geometry of the
Spector Street Estate was only visible from the air. Walking in its drear canyons, passing through its grimy corridors
from one grey concrete rectangle to the next, there was little to seduce the eye or stimulate the imagination. What
few sap lings had been planted in the q uadrangles had long sinc e bee n mutilated or upro oted; the grass, though tall,
resolutely refused a healthy green.
No doubt the estate and its two co mpa nion d evelo pme nts had once been an architect's drea m. No do ubt the cityplanners had wept with pleasure at a design which housed three and thirty-six persons per hectare, and still boasted
space for a children 's playground. D oubtless fortunes and reputations had been b uilt upon Spector Street, and at its
opening fine words had been spoken of its being a yardstick by which all future developments would be measured.
But the planners - tears wept, words spoken - had left the estate to its own devices; the architects occupied restored
Georgian houses at the other end of the city, and probably never set foot here.
They would no t have b een shamed by the deterioration of the estate eve n if they had . Their brain-child (they would
doubtless argue) was as brilliant as ever: its geometries as precise, its ratios as calculated; it was people who had
spoiled Sp ector Street. N or wo uld they have b een wrong in such an accusation. Helen had seldom seen an inner city
environment so comprehensively vandalized. Lamps bad been shattered and back-yard fences overthrown; cars
whose wheels and engines had been removed and chassis then burned, blocked garage facilities. In one courtyard
three o r four ground -floor m aisonettes had been entirely gutted by fire, their wind ows and doors boa rded up with
planks and corrugated iron.
Mo re startling still was the graffiti. That was what she had come here to see, encouraged by Archie's talk of the
place, and she was not disap pointed. It was d ifficult to believe, staring at the multiple layers of designs, nam es,
obscenities, and dogm as that we re scrawled and sp rayed on every available b rick, that Spector Stre et was b arely
three and a half years old. The walls, so recently virgin, were now so profoundly defaced that the Council Cleaning
Department could never hope to return them to their former condition. A layer of whitewash to cancel this visual
cacophony would only offer the scribes a fresh and yet more tempting surface on which to make their mark.
Helen was in seventh heaven. Every corner she turned offered some fresh material for her thesis: "Graffiti: the
semiotics of urban despair". It was a subject which m arried her two favourite disciplines - sociology and aesthetics and as she wandered around the estate she began to wonder if there wasn't a book, in addition to her thesis, in the
subject. She w alked from courtyard to courtyard, cop ying down a large numb er of the more interesting scrawlings,
and noting their location. Then she went back to the car to co llect her camera and tripod and returned to the most
fertile of the areas, to make a thorough visual reco rd of the walls.
It was a chilly business. She was not an expert photographer, and the late October sky was in full flight, shifting the
light on the bricks from one moment to the next. As she adjusted and re-adjusted the exposure to compensate for the
light changes, her fingers steadily became clumsier, her temper correspond ingly thinner. But she struggled on, the
idle curiosity of passers-by notwithstanding. There were so many designs to document. She reminded herself that her
present disc om fort wo uld b e amp ly rep aid w hen she show ed the slides to Trevor, whose doubt of the project's
validity had been perfectly apparent from the beginning.
"T he writing on the wall?" he'd said, half smiling in that irritating fashion o f his, "It's been done a hundred times."
This was true, of course; and yet not. There certainly were learned works on graffiti, chock full of sociological
jargon: cultural disenfranchisement; urban alienation. But she flattered herself that she might find something
amo ngst this litter of scrawlings that previous analysts had not: som e unifying conve ntion p erhap s, that she could
use as the lynch-pin of her thesis. Only a vigorous cataloguing and cross-referencing of the phrases and images
before her would reveal such a correspondence; hence the importance of this photographic study. So many hands
had worked here; so many minds left their mark, however casually: if she could find some pattern, some
predominant motive, or motif, the thesis would be guaranteed some serious attention, and so, in turn, would she.
"What are you doing?" a voice from behind her asked.
She turned from her calculations to see a young woman with a pushchair on the pavement behind her. She looked
weary, Helen thought, and pinched by the cold. The child in the pushchair was mewling, his grimy fingers clutching
an orange lollipop and the wrapping from a chocolate bar. The bulk of the chocolate, and the remains of previous

jujub es, was d isplayed dow n the front of his co at.
Helen offered a thin smile to the woman; she loo ked in need of it.
"I'm photographing the walls," she said in answer to the initial enquiry, though surely this wa s perfectly app arent.
The woman - she could barely be twenty - Helen judged, said:
"You mean the filth?"
"T he writing and the pictures," H elen said. Then: "Yes. The filth."
"You from the Council?"
"N o, the U niversity."
"It's bloo dy disgusting," the woman said. "The way the y do tha t. It's not just kids, either."
"No?"
"Grown m en. Grown men, too. They do n't give a damn. Do it in broad daylight. You see 'em... broad daylight." She
glanced down at the child, who was sharpening his lollipop on the ground. "Ke rry!" she snapped, but the boy took no
notice. "Are they going to wipe it off?" she asked Helen.
"I don't know," H elen said, and reiterated: "I'm fro m the U niversity."
"Oh," the woman replied, as if this was new information, "so you're nothing to do with the Council?"
"N o."
"So me o f it's obscene, isn't it?; really dirty. M akes m e embarrassed to see so me o f the things the y draw."
Helen nodded, casting an eye at the boy in the pushchair. Kerry had decided to put his sweet in his ear for safekeeping.
"Don't do that!" his mother told him, and leaned over to slap the child's hand. The blow, which was negligible, began
the child bawling. Helen took the opportunity to return to her camera. But the woman still desired to talk. "It's not
just on the outside, neither," she commented.
"I beg your pardon?" Helen said.
"They break into the flats when they go empty. The Council tried to board them up, but it does no good. They break
in anyway. Use them as toilets, and write more filth on the walls. They light fires too. Then nobody can move back
in."
The description piqued H elen's curiosity. Would the graffiti on the inside walls be substantially different from the
public displays? It was certainly worth an investigation.
"Are there any places you know of around here like that?"
"Empty flats, you mean?"
"W ith graffiti."
"Just by us, there's one o r two," the woman volunteered . "I'm in B utts' Court."
"Maybe you could show me?" Helen asked.
The woman shrugged.
"B y the way, m y name 's Helen Buchanan."
"Anne-Marie," the mother replied.
"I'd be very grateful if you could point me to o ne of tho se empty flats."
Anne-Marie was baffled by Helen's enthusiasm, and made no attempt to disguise it, but she shrugged again and said:
"T here's nothing much to see. O nly more of the same stuff."
Helen gathered up her equipment and they walked side by side through the intersecting corridors between one square
and the next. Though the estate was low-rise, each court only five storeys high, the effect of each quadrangle was
horribly claustroph obic. T he walkways and staircases were a thief's dream, rife with blind "co rners and ill-lit tunnels.
The rubbish-dumping facilities - chutes from the upper floors down which bags of refuse could be pitched - had long
since been sealed up, thanks to their efficiency as fire-traps. Now plastic bags of refuse were piled high in the
corridors, many torn open by roa ming d ogs, their contents strewn across the gro und. T he smell, even in the cold
weather, was unpleasant. In high summer it must have been overpowering.
"I'm over the other side," Anne-Marie said, pointing across the quadrangle. "The one with the yellow door." She then
pointed along the opposite side of the court. "Five or six maisonettes from the far end," she said. "There's two of
them been emptied out. Few weeks now. One of the family's moved into Ruskin Court; the other did a bunk in the
midd le of the night."
W ith that, she turned her back o n He len and wheeled K erry, who had taken to trailing spittle fro m the sid e of his
pushchair, around the side of the square.
"T hank you," Helen called after her. Anne-M arie glanced over her sho ulder briefly, but did no t reply. Appe tite
whetted, Helen made her way along the row of ground floor maisonettes, many of which, though inhabited, showed
little sign of being so. T heir curtains were closely drawn; there were no m ilk-bottles on the do orste ps, nor child ren's
toys left where they had been played with. Nothing, in fact, of life here. There was more graffiti however, sprayed,

shockingly, on the doors of occupied houses. She granted the scrawlings only a casual perusal, in part because she
feared one of the doors opening as she examined a choice obscenity sprayed upon it, but more because she was eager
to see what revelations the empty flats ahead might offer.
The malign scent of urine, both fresh and stale, welcomed her at the threshold of number 14, and benea th that the
smell of burnt paint and plastic. She hesitated for fully ten seconds, wondering if stepping into the maisonette was a
wise move. The territory of the estate behind her was indisputably foreign, sealed off m its own misery, but the
rooms in front of her were more intimidating still: a dark maze which her eyes could barely penetrate. But when her
courage faltered she thought of Trevor, and how bad ly she wanted to silence his condescension. So thinking, she
advanced into the place, delib erately kicking a piece of charred timber aside as she d id so, in the hop e that she would
alert any tenant into showing himself.
There was no sound o f occupancy however. Gaining confidence, she began to explore the front room of the
maisonette which had been - to judge by the remains of a disemboweled sofa in one corner and the sodden carpet
underfoot - a living-room. The pale-green walls were, as Anne-Marie had promised, extensively defaced, both by
minor scribb lers - content to wo rk in pen, or even mo re crudely in so fa charcoal - and by those w ith aspirations to
public wo rks, who had sprayed the walls in half a dozen colours.
Some of the comm ents were of interest, though many she bad already seen on the walls outside. Familiar names and
couplings repeated themselves. Though she bad never set eyes on these individuals she knew how badly Fabian J.
(A.OK !) wanted to deflower M ichelle; and that Michelle, in her turn, had the hots for somebody called Mr. Sheen.
Here, as elsewhere, a man called White Rat boasted of his endowment, and the return of the Syllabub Brothers was
promised in red paint. One or two of the pictures accompanying, or at least adjacent to, these phrases were of
particular intere st. An alm ost em blem atic simp licity informed them. B eside the word Christos was a stick m an with
his hair radiating from his head like spines, and other heads impaled on each spine. Close by was an image of
intercourse so brutally reduced that at first Helen took it to illustrate a knife plunging into a sightless eye. But
fascinating as the images were, the room was too gloomy for her film and she had neglected to bring a flash. If she
wanted a reliable record of these discoveries she would have to come again, and for now be co ntent with a simple
exploration of the premises.
The maisonette wasn't that large, but the windows had been boarded up throughout, and as she moved further from
the front door the dubious light petered out altogether. The smell of urine, which had been strong at the door,
intensified too, until by the time she reached the back of the living-roo m and stepped alo ng a sho rt corridor into
another room b eyond, it was cloying as incense. This roo m, being furthest from the front d oor, was also the darkest,
and she bad to wait a few moments in the cluttered gloom to allow her eyes to become useful. This, she guessed, had
been the bedro om. W hat little furniture the resid ents had left behind them had b een sm ashed to smithe reens. Only
the mattress had been left relatively untouched, dumped in the corner of the room amongst a wretched litter of
blankets, newspap ers, and pieces of cro ckery.
Outside, the sun found its way between the clouds, and two or three shafts of sunlight slipped between the boards
nailed across the bedroom window and pierced the room like annunciations, scoring the opposite wall with bright
lines. Here, the graffitists had been busy once more: the usual clamour of love-letters and threats. She scanned the
wall quickly, and as she did so her eye was led by the beams of light across the room to the wall which contained the
door she had stepped through.
Here, the artists had also been at work, but had produced an image the like of which she had not seen anywhere else.
Using the door, which was centrally placed in the wall, as a m outh, the artists had sprayed a single, vast head on to
the stripped plaster. The painting was more adroit than most she had seen, rife with detail that lent the image an
unsettling veracity. The cheekbones jutting through skin the colour of buttermilk; the teeth - sharpened to irregular
points - all converging on the door. The sitter's eyes were, owing to the room's low ceiling, set mere inches above the
upp er lip, but this physical adjustment only lent force to the image, giving the imp ression that he ha d thrown his
head back. Kno tted strands of his hair snaked from his scalp across the ceiling.
Was it a portrait? There was something naggingly specific in the details of the brows and the lines around the wide
mouth; in the careful picturing of those vicious teeth. A nightmare certainly: a facsimile, perhaps, of something from
a heroin fugue. Whatever its origins, it was potent. Even the illusion of door-as-mouth worked. The short
passagew ay between living-roo m and b edroo m offered a passable thro at, with a tattered lamp in lieu of tonsils.
Beyond the gullet, the day burned white in the nightmare's belly. The whole effect brought to mind a ghost train
painting. The same heroic deformity, the same unashamed intention to scare. And it worked; she stood in the
bedroom almost stupified by the picture, its red-rimmed eyes fixing her mercilessly. Tomorrow, she determined, she
would come here again, this time with high-speed film and a flash to illuminate the masterwork.
As she prepared to leave the sun went in, and the bands of light faded. She glanced over her shoulder at the boarded
windows, and saw for the first time that one four-word slogan had been sprayed on the wall beneath them.

"Sweets to the sweet" it read. She was familiar with the quote, but not with its source. Wa s it a profession of love? If
so, it was an odd location for such an avowal. D espite the mattress in the corner, and the relative priva cy of this
room, she could not imagine the intended reader of such words ever stepping in here to receive her bouquet. No
adolescent lovers, however heated, would lie down here to play at mothers and fathers; not under the gaze of the
terror on the wall. She crossed to examine the writing. The paint looked to be the same shade of pink as had been
used to colour the gums of the screaming man; perhaps the same hand?
Behind her, a noise. She turned so quickly she almost tripped over the blanket-strewn mattress.
"Who - ?"
At the other end of the gullet, in the living-room, was a scab-kneed boy of six or seven. He stared at Helen, eyes
glittering in the half-light, as if waiting for a cue.
"Yes?" she said.
"Anne-M arie says do you want a cup of tea?" he declared without pause or intonation.
Her conversation with the woman seemed hours past. She was grateful for the invitation however. The damp in the
maisonette had chilled her.
"Y es..." she said to the bo y. "Yes plea se."
The child didn't move, but simply stared on at her.
"Are you going to lead the way?" she asked him.
"If you want," he replied, unable to raise a trace of enthusiasm.
"I'd like tha t."
"You taking photographs?" he asked.
"Yes. Yes, I am. But not in here." "Why not?"
"It's too dark," she told him.
"Don't it work in the dark?" he wanted to know.
"N o."
The boy nodded at this, as if the information somehow fitted well into his scheme of things, and about turned
without another word, clearly expecting Helen to follow.
If she had been taciturn in the street, Anne-Marie was anything but in the privacy of her own kitchen. Gone was the
guarded curiosity, to be replaced by a stream of lively chatter and a constant scurrying between half a dozen minor
dom estic tasks, like a juggler keeping severa l plates sp inning sim ultaneo usly. He len watched this balancing act with
some admiration; her own domestic skills were negligible. At last, the meandering conversation turned back to the
subject that had brought Helen here.
"Them photographs," Anne-Marie said, "why'd you want to take them?"
"I'm writing abo ut graffiti. The photos w ill illustrate my thesis."
"It's not very pretty."
"N o, you're right, it isn't. But I find it interesting."
Anne-M arie sho ok her head . "I hate the who le estate," she said . "It's not safe here. P eop le getting ro bbe d on their
own doorsteps. Kids setting fire to the rubbish day in, day out. Last summer we had the fire brigade here two, three
times a d ay, 'til they sealed them chutes off. Now people just dump the bags in the passageways, and that attracts
rats."
"Do you live here alone?"
"Y es," she said, 'since Davey walked o ut."
"That your husband?"
"He was Kerry's father, but we weren't never married. We lived together two years, you know. We had some good
times. Then he just upped and went off one day when I was at me Main's with Kerry." She peered into her tea-cup.
"I'm better off without him," she said. "But you get scared sometimes. Want some more tea?"
"I don't think I've go t time."
"Just a cup," Anne-Marie said, already up and unplugging the electric kettle to take it across for a re-fill. As she was
about to turn on the tap she saw something on the draining board, and drove her thumb down, grinding it out. "Got
you, you bugger," she said , then turned to Helen: "W e got the se bloody ants."
"Ants?"
"W hole estate's infected. From Egypt, they are: pharoah ants, they're called. Little brown sods. They breed in the
central heating d ucts, you see; that way they get into all the flats. P lace is plagued with them ."
This unlikely exoticism (ants from Egypt?) struck Helen as comical, but she said nothing. Anne-Marie was staring
out of the kitchen window and into the back-yard.
"You should tell them - " she said, though Helen wasn't certain whom she was being instructed to tell, 'tell them that
ordinary pe ople can't even walk the streets any longer - "Is it really so bad?" H elen said, frankly tiring of this

catalogue o f misfortunes.
Anne-Marie turned from the sink and looked at her hard.
We've had murders here," she said.
"Really?"
"W e had one in the summe r. An old m an he was, from Ruskin. That's just next door. I didn't know him, b ut he was a
friend o f the sister of the woman next door. I forget his name ."
"And he was murdered?"
"Cut to ribb ons in his own fro nt room. T hey did n't find him for almo st a week."
"What about his neighbours? Didn't they notice his absence?"
Anne-Marie shrugged, as if the most important pieces of information - the murder and the man's isolation - had been
exchanged, and any further enquiries into the pro blem were irrelevant. But Helen pressed the point.
"Seems strange to me," she said.
Anne-Marie plugged in the filled kettle. "Well, it happened," she replied, unmoved.
"I'm no t saying it did n't, I just - "
"His eyes had been taken out," she said, before H elen could voice any further do ubts.
Helen winced. "No ," she said, under her breath.
"That's the truth," Anne-Marie said. "And that wasn't all'd been done to him." She p aused, for effect, then went on:
"Yo u wonder what kind of person's capable of doing things like that, don't you? You wo nder." Helen nodd ed. She
was thinking precisely the same thing.
"Did they ever find the man responsible?"
Anne-Marie snorted her disparagement. "Police don't give a damn what happens here. They keep off the estate as
much as possible. When they do patrol all they do is pick up kids for getting drunk and that. They're afraid, you see.
That's why they keep cle ar."
"Of this killer?"
"M aybe," Anne-M arie rep lied. "T hen: H e had a hoo k."
"A hook?"
"T he ma n what done it. He had a hook, like Jack the R ipper."
Helen was no expert o n murder, b ut she felt certain that the Ripp er had n't boasted a ho ok. It see med churlish to
question the truth of Anne-Marie's story however; though she silently wondered how much of this - the eyes taken
out, the b ody rotting in the flat, the hoo k - was elaboration. T he mo st scrupulous o f reporters was surely tem pted to
embellish a story once in a while.
Anne-M arie had po ured herself an other cup o f tea, and was ab out to d o the same for her guest.
"N o thank you," Helen said, "I really should go."
"You married?" Anne-Marie asked, out of the blue.
"Y es. To a lecturer from the U niversity."
"What's his name?"
"T revor."
Anne-Marie put two heaped spoonfuls of sugar into her cup of tea. "Will you be coming back?" she asked.
"Yes, I hope to. Later in the week. I want to take some photographs of the pictures in the maisonette across the
court."
"W ell, call in.
"I shall. And thank you for your help ."
"That's all right," Anne-Marie replied. "You've got to tell somebody, haven't you?"
"T he ma n app arently ha d a ho ok instead of a hand ."
Trevor looked up from his plate of tagliatelle con prosciutto.
"Beg your pardon?"
Helen had been at pains to keep her recounting of this story as uncoloured by her own response as she could. She
was interested to know what Trevor wo uld make of it, and she knew that if she once signalled her own stance he
would instinctively take an op posing view o ut of plain blood y-mindedne ss.
"He had a hook," she repeated, without inflexion.
Trevor put down his fork, and plucked at his nose, sniffing. "I didn't read anything about this," he said.
"Y ou don't look at the local press," H elen returned . "Neither of us do. Maybe it never m ade any of the nationals."
""G eriatric M urdered B y Ho ok-H anded M aniac"?" Tre vor said, savo uring the hyperbole. "I wo uld have thought it
very newsworthy. When was all of this supposed to have happened?"
"So metime last summer. M aybe we were in Ireland."
"Maybe," said Trevor, taking up his fork again. Bending to his food, the polished lens of his spectacles reflected

only the plate of pasta an d chop ped ha m in front of him, not his eyes.
"Why do you say maybe?" Helen prodded.
"It do esn't sound quite right," he said. " In fact it sounds b lood y prep ostero us."
"You don't believe it?" Helen said.
Trevor looked up from his food, tongue rescuing a speck of tagliatelle from the corner of his mouth. His face had
relaxed into that non-comm ittal expression of his - the same face he w ore, no doubt, when listening to his students.
"Do you believe it?" he asked Helen. It was a favourite time-gaining device of his, another seminar trick, to question
the questioner.
"I'm not certain," Helen replied, too concerned to find some solid ground in this sea of doubts to waste energy
scoring po ints.
"All right, forget the tale - " Trevor said, deserting his food for another glass of red wine. " - W hat about the teller?
Did you trust. her?"
Helen p ictured Anne-Ma rie's earnest expression as she told the story of the old man's murder. "Y es," she said. "Y es;
I think I wo uld have kno wn if she'd b een lying to me."
"So why's it so important, anyhow? I mean, whether she's lying or not, what the fuck does it matter?"
It was a reasonable question, if irritatingly put. Why did it matter? Was it that she wanted to have her worst feelings
about Spector Street proved false? That such an estate be filthy, be hopeless, be a dump where the undesirable and
the disadvantaged were tucked out of public view - all that was a liberal commonplace, and she accepted it as an
unpalatable social reality. But the story of the old man's murder and mutilation was something other. An image of
violent death that, once with her, refused to part from her compa ny.
She realized, to her chagrin, that this confusion was plain on her face, and that Trevor, watching her across the table,
was no t a little entertained by it.
"If it bothers you so much," he said, "why d on't you go back there and ask around, instead o f playing b elieve-in-itor-not over dinner?"
She couldn't help but rise to his remark. "I thought you liked guessing games," she said.
He threw her a sullen look.
"W rong again."
The suggestion that she investigate was not a bad one, though doubtless he had ulterior motives for offering it. She
viewed Trevor less charitably day by day. What she had once thought in him a fierce commitment to debate she now
recognized as mere po wer-play. He argued, not for the thrill of dialectic, but because he was pathologically
competitive. She had seen him, time and again, take up attitudes she knew he did not espouse, simply to spill blood.
Nor, more's the pity, was he alone in this sport. Academe was one of the last strongholds of the professional timewaster. On o ccasio n their circ le seem ed en tirely dominated by educated fo ols, lost in a wasteland of stale rheto ric
and hollow com mitment.
From one wasteland to another. She returned to Spector Street the following day, armed with a flashgun in addition
to her tripod and high-sensitive film. The wind was up today, and it was Arctic, more furious still for being trapped
in the maze of passageways and courts. She made her way to number 14, and spent the next hour in its befouled
confines, meticulously photographing both the bedroom and living-room walls. She had half expected the impact of
the head in the bedroom to be dulled by re-acquaintance; it was not. Though she struggled to capture its scale and
detail as best she cou ld, she knew the photographs would be at b est a dim echo of its perp etual ho wl.
Much of its power lay in its context, of course. That such an image might be stumbled upon in surroundings so drab,
so conspicuously lacking in mystery, was akin to finding an icon on a rubbish-heap: a gleaming symbol of
transcendence from a world of toil and decay into some darker but more tremendous realm. She was painfully aware
that the intensity of her response probably defied her articulation. Her vocabulary was analytic, replete with buzzwords and academic terminology, but woefully impoverished when it came to evocation. The photographs, pale as
they would be, wou ld, she hope d, at least hint at the potenc y of this picture, eve n if they couldn't conjure the way it
froze the bo wels.
When she emerged from the maisonette the wind was as uncharitable as ever, but the boy waiting outside - the same
child as had attended upon her yesterday - was dressed as if for spring weather. He grimaced in his effort to keep the
shudders a t bay.
"Hello," Helen said.
"I waited," the child announced.
Waited?"
"Anne-M arie said you'd co me b ack."
"I wasn't planning to co me un til later in the we ek," H elen said. "Y ou might have waited a long time."
The boy's grimace relaxed a no tch. "It's all right," he said, "I've got nothing to do ."

"What about school?"
"Don't like it," the boy replied, as if unobliged to be educated if it wasn't to his taste.
"I see," said Helen, and began to walk down the side of the quadrangle. The boy followed. On the patch of grass at
the centre of the quadrangle several chairs and two or three dead saplings had been piled.
"W hat's this?" she said , half to herself.
"B onfire N ight," the boy info rmed her. "N ext wee k."
"O f course."
"You going to see Anne-Marie?" he asked.
"Y es."
"She's not in"
"Oh. Are you sure?"
"Y eah."
"W ell, perhaps yo u can help me..."Sh e stopped and turned to face the child; smoo th sacs o f fatigue hung beneath his
eyes. "I heard about an old man who was murdered near here," she said to him. "In the summer. Do you know
anything about that?"
"N o."
"Nothing at all? You don't remember anybody getting killed?"
"N o," the boy sa id again, with imp ressive finality. "I do n't remem ber."
W ell; thank yo u anyway."
This time, when she retraced her steps back to the car, the boy didn't follow. But as she turned the corner out of the
quadrangle she glanced back to see him standing on the spot where she'd left him, staring after her as if she were a
madwom an.
By the time she had reached the car and packed the photographic equipment into the boo t there we re specks of rain
in the wind, and she was sorely tempted to forget she'd ever heard Anne-Marie's story and make her way home,
where the coffee would be warm even if the welcome wasn't. But she needed an answer to the question Trevor had
put the previous night. Do you believe it? , he'd aske d whe n she'd told him the story. S he had n't known how to
answer then, and she still didn't. Perhaps (why did she sense this?) the terminology of verifiable truth was redundant
here; p erhap s the final answer to his question was not an answer at all, only another question. If so; so. She had to
find out.
Ruskin Court was as forlorn as its fellows, if not mo re so. It d idn't even boast a bonfire. On the third floor b alcon y a
woman was taking washing in before the rain broke; on the grass in the centre of the quadrangle two dogs were
absent-mindedly rutting, the fuckee staring up at the blank sky. As she walked along the empty pavement she set her
face determinedly; a purposeful look, Bernadette had once said, deterred attack. When she caught sight of the two
women talking at the far end of the court she crossed over to them hurriedly, grateful for their presence.
"Excuse me?"
The wom en, both in middle-age, ceased their animated exchange and looked her over.
"I wonder if you can help me?"
She could feel their ap praisal, and their distrust; they went undisguise d. One of the pair, her face florid, said plainly:
"What do you want?"
Helen suddenly felt bereft of the least power to charm. What was she to say to these two that wouldn't make her
motives appear ghoulish? "I was told... she began, and then stumbled, aware that she would get no assistance from
either woman. "...I was told there'd been a murder near here. Is that right?"
The florid woman raised eyebrows so plucked they were barely visible. "Murder?" she said.
"Are you from the press?" the other woman enquired. The years bad soured her features beyond sweetening. Her
small mouth wa s deeply lined; her hair, which had been dyed b runette, showed a half-inch of grey at the roots.
"No , I'm not from the press," Helen said, "I'm a friend of Anne-Marie's, in Butts" Court." This claim of friend
stretched the truth, but it seemed to mellow the wom en somewhat.
"Visiting are you?" the florid woman asked.
"In a mann er of sp eaking - "
"Yo u missed the warm spell - " Anne-M arie was telling me about somebody who'd been murde red here, during the
summ er. I was curiou s about it."
"Is that right?"
" - do you know anything about it?"
"Lo ts of things go on around here," said the second wo man. "You don't know the half of it."
"So it's true," Helen said.
"They had to close the toilets," the first woman put in.

"That's right. They did," the other said.
"The toilets?" Helen said. Wha t had this to do with the old man's death?
"It was terrible," the first said. "Was it your Frank, Josie, who told you about it?"
"N o, not Frank," Josie replied. "F rank was still at sea. It wa s Mrs. Tyz ack."
The witness established, Josie relinquished the story to her companion, and turned her gaze back upon H elen. The
suspicion ba d not yet died from her eyes.
"This was only the month before last," Josie said. "Just about the end of August. It was August, wasn't it?" She
looked to the othe r wom an for verification. "Y ou've go t the head for d ates, M auree n."
Mauree n looked uncomfortable. " I forget," she said, clearly unwilling to offer testimony.
"I'd like to know," Helen said. Josie, despite her companion's reluctance, was eager to oblige.
"T here's some lavatories," she said, "outside the sho ps - you know , public lavatories. I'm not quite sure how it all
happened exactly, but there used to be a boy... well, he wasn't a boy really, I mean he was a man of twenty or more,
but he was - she fished for the words, "...mentally subnormal, I suppose you'd say. His mother used to have to take
him around like he was a four year old. Anyhow, she let him go into the lavatories while she went to that little
supermarket, what's it called?" she turned to Maureen for a prompt, but the other woman just looked back, her
disapproval plain. Josie was ungovernable, however. "Broad daylight, this was," she said to Helen. "Middle of the
day. Anyhow, the boy went to the toilet, and the mother was in the shop. And after a while, you know how you do,
she's busy sh opp ing, she forgets ab out him , and the n she thinks he's been gone a long time..."
At this juncture Maureen couldn't prevent herself from butting in: the accuracy of the story apparently took
preced ence over her wariness.
" - She got into an argument," she corrected Josie, "with the manager. About some bad bacon she'd had from him.
That was why she was such a tune.
"I see," said Helen.
" - anyway," said Josie, picking up the tale, 'she finished her sho pping and when she came o ut he still wasn't there - "
"So she asked someone from the supermarket - Maureen began, but Josie wasn't about to have her narrative snatched
back at this vital juncture.
"She asked one of the men from the supermarket -" she repeated over Maureen's interjection, 'to go down into the
lavatory and find him."
"It was terrible," said Maureen, clearly picturing the atrocity in her mind's eye.
"H e was lying on the floor, in a poo l of blood."
"Murdered?"
Josie shook her head. "He'd have been better off dead. He'd been attacked with a razor - she let this piece of
information sink in before delivering the coup de grace, - and they'd cut off his private parts. Just cut them off and
flushed them d own a toilet. N o reason o n earth to do it."
"O h my G od."
"Better off dead," Josie repeated. "I mean, they can't mend something like that, can they?"
The app alling tale was rend ered worse still by the sang-froid of the teller, and b y the casu al repetition of "Better off
dead".
"The boy," Helen said, "Was he able to describe his attackers?"
"N o," said Josie, "he's practically an imbecile. H e can't string more than two word s together."
"And nobody saw anyone go into the lavatory? Or leaving it?"
"People come and go all the time - Maureen said. This, though it sounded like an adequate explanation, had not been
Helen's experience. There was not a great bustle in the quadrangle and passageways; far from it. Perhaps the
shopping mall was busier, she reasoned, and might offer adequate cover for such a crime.
"So they haven't found the culprit," she said.
"N o," Josie replied, her eyes losing the ir fervour. The crim e and its immediate consequences were the nub o f this
story; she had little or no interest in either the culprit or his capture.
"W e're not safe in our own b eds," Mauree n observed. "Y ou ask anyone."
"Anne-Marie said the same," Helen replied. "That's how she came to tell me about the old man. Said he was
murd ered during the summer, here in R uskin C ourt."
"I do rem emb er som ething," Josie said. "There wa s some talk I heard. A n old man, and his d og. H e was b attered to
death, and the do g ended up ... I don't know. It certainly wasn't here. It must have b een o ne of the other e states."
"Are you sure?"
The wom an looked offended by this slur on her memory. "Oh yes," she said, "I mean if it had been here, we'd have
known the story, wouldn't we?"

Helen thanked the pair for their help and decided to take a stroll around the quadrangle anyway, just to see how
many more maisonettes were out of operation here. As in Butts" Court, many of the curtains were drawn and all the
doors locked. But then if Spector Street was under siege from a maniac capable of the murder and mutilation such as
she'd heard described, she was not surprised that the residents took to their homes and stayed there. There was
nothing much to see around the court. All the unoccupied maisonettes and flats had been recently sealed, to judge by
a litter of nails left on a doorstep by the council workmen. One sight did catch her attention however. Scrawled on
the paving stones she was walking over - and all but erased by rain and the passage of feet - the sam e phrase she'd
seen in the bed room of number 14: Sw eets to the sweet. Th e words were so benign; why did she see m to sense
menace in them? Was it in their excess, perhaps, in the sheer overabundance of sugar upon sugar, honey upon
hone y?
She walked on, though the rain persisted, and her walkabout gradually led her away from the quadrangles and into a
co ncrete no-man's-land throu gh which she had not previously p assed. This was - or had been - the site of the esta te's
amenities. Here wa s the child ren's playground, its metal-framed ride s overturned , its sandp it fouled by do gs, its
paddling pool empty. And here too were the shops. Several had been board ed up; those that hadn't were dingy and
unattractive, their windows protected by heavy wire-mesh.
She w alked along the row , and ro unde d a co rner, and there in front of her was a squat brick building. The public
lavatory, she guessed, though the signs designating it as such had gone. The iron gates were closed and padlocked.
Standing in front of the charmless building, the wind gusting around her legs, she couldn't help but think of what had
happened he re. Of the man-child, b leeding on the floor, he lpless to cry out. It made her q ueasy even to contempla te
it. She turned her thoughts instead to the felon. What would he look like, she wondered, a man capable of such
depravities? She tried to make an image of him, but no detail she could conjure carried sufficient force. But then
monsters were seldom very terrible once hauled into the plain light of day. As long as this man was known only by
his deeds he held untold power over the imagination; but the human truth beneath the terrors would, she knew, be
bitterly disappointing. No monster he; just a whey-faced apology for a man more needful of pity than awe.
The next gust of wind brought the rain on more heavily. It was time, she decided, to be done with adventures for the
day. Turning her back on the public lavatories she hurried back through the quadrangles to the refuge of the car, the
icy rain needling her face to numbness.
The dinner guests looked gratifyingly appalled at the story, and Trevor, to judge by the expression on his face, was
furious. It was do ne now, how ever; the re was no taking it back. No r could she d eny her satisfaction she too k in
having silenced the inter-departmental babble about the table. It was Bernadette, Trevor's assistant in the History
Department, who broke the agonizing hush.
"When was this?"
"During the summer," Helen told her.
"I don't recall reading about it," said Archie, much the better for two hours of drinking; it mellowed a tongue which
was otherwise fulsome in its self-corruscation.
"Perhaps the police are suppressing it," Daniel commented.
"Consp iracy?" said Trevor, p lainly cynica l.
"It's happening all the time," Daniel shot back.
"W hy shou ld they suppress som ething like this?" Helen said. "It do esn't make sense ."
"Since when has police procedure made sense?" Daniel replied.
Bernadette cut in before Helen could answer. "We don't even bother to read about these things any longer," she said.
"Speak for yourself," somebody piped up, but she ignored them and went on:
"W e're punch-drunk with violence. W e don't see it any longer, even when it's in front of our no ses."
"O n the screen every nigh t," Arc hie put in, "Death and disaster in full colour."
"T here's nothing very modern about that," T revor said. "An E lizabethan wo uld have seen dea th all the time. Pub lic
executions were a very po pular form o f entertainment."
The table broke up into a ca cop hony o f opinio ns. After two hours of polite gossip the d inner-party had sudd enly
caught fire. Listening to the debate rage Helen was sorry she hadn't had time to have the photographs processed and
printed; the graffiti would have ad ded further fuel to this exhilarating row. It was P urcell, as usual, who was the last
to weigh in with his point of view; and again, as usual it was devastating.
"Of course, Helen, my sweet - he began, that affected weariness in his voice edged with the anticipation of
controversy "- your witnesses could all be lying, couldn't they?"
The talking around the table dwindled, and all heads turned in Purcell's direction. Perversely, he ignored the
attention he'd garnered , and turned to whisper in the ear of the boy he'd brou ght - a new passion w ho wou ld, on past
form, be discarded in a matter of weeks for another pretty urchin.

"Lying?" Helen said. She could feel herself bristling at the observation already, and Purcell had only spoken a dozen
words.
"Why not?" the other replied, lifting his glass of wine to his lips. "Perhaps they're all weaving some elaborate fiction
or other. T he story of the spastic's mutilation in the public toilet. The murder o f the old man. E ven that hook. All
quite familiar elements. You must be aware that there's something traditional about these atrocity stories. One used
to exchange them all the time; there wa s a certain fission in them. So mething com petitive m aybe, in attemp ting to
find a new detail to add to the collective fiction; a fresh twist that would render the tale that little bit more appalling
when you passed it on."
"It may be familiar to you - said Helen defensively. Purcell was always so poised; it irritated her. Even if there were
validity in his argument - which she doubted - she was damned if she'd concede it. " - I've never heard this kind of
story before."
"Have you not?" said Purcell, as though she were admitting to illiteracy. "What about the lovers and the escaped
lunatic, have you heard that one?"
"I've heard that..." Daniel said.
"The lover is disemboweled - usually by a hook-handed man - and the body left on the top of the car, while the
fianc cowers inside. It's a cautionary tale, warning of the evils of rampant heterosexuality." The joke won a round
of laugh ter from everyo ne but Helen. "T hese sto ries are very co mmon."
"So you're saying that they're telling me lies - " she protested.
"N ot lies, exactly - "
"Y ou said lies."
"I was being provocative," Purc ell returne d, his placatory tone m ore enraging than ever. "I don't mean to imply
there's any se rious m ischief in it. But you m ust concede that so far you haven't met a single w itness. All these events
have happened at some unspecified date to some unspecified person. They are reported at several removes. They
occurred at best to the brothers of friends of distant relations. Please co nsider the po ssibility that perhap s these
events do not exist in the real world at all, but are merely titillation for bored housewives - Helen didn't make an
argument in return, for the simple reason that she lacked one. Purcell's point about the conspicuous absence of
witnesses was perfectly so und; she herse lf had wondered about it. It was strange, too , the way the wom en in Ruskin
Court had speedily consigned the old man's murder to another estate, as though these atrocities always occu rred just
out of sight - round the next corner, down the next passageway - but never here.
"So why?" said Bernadette.
"Why what?" Archie puzzled.
"The stories. Why tell these horrible stories if they're not true?"
"Yes," said Helen, throwing the controversy back into Purcell's ample lap. "Why?"
Purcell p reened himself, aware that his entry into the deb ate had changed the basic assump tio n at a stroke. "I do n't
know," he said, happy to be done with the game now that he'd shown his arm. "You really mustn't take me too
seriously, Helen. I try not to." The boy at Purcell's side tittered.
"Maybe it's simply taboo material," Archie said.
"Suppressed - Daniel prompted.
"N ot the way you m ean it," A rchie re torted . "T he whole wo rld isn't politics, Daniel."
"Such naivet."
"W hat's so taboo about death?" Trevor said. "Bernadette already pointed out: it's in front of us all the time.
Television; newsp apers."
"Maybe that's not close enough," Bernadette suggested.
"D oes anyone mind if I smoke?" Purc ell broke in. "O nly dessert seem s to have bee n indefinitely postponed - "
Helen ignored the remark, and asked Bernadette what she meant by "not close enough"?
Bernadette shrugged. "I don't know precisely," she confessed, 'maybe just that death has to be near; we have to know
it's just round the corner. T he television's not intim ate eno ugh - "
Helen frowned. The observation made some sense to her, b ut in the clutter of the m ome nt she co uldn't roo t out its
significance.
"Do you think they're stories too?" she asked.
"Andrew has a point - " Bernadette replied.
"M ost kind ," said Purc ell. "H as som ebo dy got a match? T he bo y's pawned my lighter."
" - abo ut the ab sence of witnesses."
"All that proves is that I haven't met anybody who's actually seen anything," Helen countered, "not that witnesses
don 't exist."
"All right," said Purcell. "Find me one. If you can p rove to m e that your atrocity-monge r actually lives and breathes,

I'll stand everyon e dinner at App ollinaires. H ow 's that? Am I generous to a fault, or do I just know when I can't
lose?" He laughed, knocking on the table with his knuckles by way of applause.
"Sounds good to me," said Trevor. "What do you say, Helen?"
She didn't go back to Spector Street until the following Monday, but all weekend she was there in thought: standing
outside the locked toilet, with the wind b ringing ra in; or in the bedroom, the p ortrait looming. Thoughts of the estate
claimed all her concern. When, late on Saturday afternoon, Trevor found some petty reason for an argument, she let
the insults pass, watching him perfo rm the familiar ritua l of self-martyrdom witho ut being touched by it in the least.
Her indifference o nly enraged him furthe r. He stormed out in high d udge on, to visit whichever of his wom en was in
favour this month. She was glad to see the back of him. When he failed to return that night she didn't even think of
weeping about it. He was foolish and vacuous. She despaired of ever seeing a haunted look in his dull eyes; and
what worth was a man who could not be haunted?
He did not return Sunday night either, and it crossed her mind the following morning, as she parked the car in the
heart of the estate, that nobody even knew she had come, and that she might lose herself for days here and nobody be
any the wiser. Like the old man A nne-M arie had told her ab out: lying forgotten in his favourite arm chair with his
eyes hooked out, while the flies feasted and the butter went rancid on the table.
It was almost Bonfire Night, and over the weekend the small heap of combustibles in Butts" Court had grown to a
substantial size. T he co nstructio n looked unsou nd, but that did n't prevent a num ber o f boys and young ad olescents
clambering over it and into it. Much of its bulk was made up of furniture, filched, no doubt, from boarded up
prop erties. She doubted if it could burn for any time: if it did, it would go chokingly. Four times, on her way acro ss
to Anne-M arie's house, she was waylaid by children begging for mone y to buy fireworks.
"Penny for the guy" , they'd say, though no ne had a guy to d isplay.
She had emptied her pocke ts of change by the time she reached the front door.
Anne-Marie was in today, though there was no welcoming smile. She simply stared at her visitor as if mesmerised.
"I ho pe you don't mind m e calling..."
Anne-M arie made no reply.
"I just wanted a word."
"I'm busy," the woman finally announced. There was no invitation inside, no offer of tea.
"O h. W ell... it won't take m ore tha n a mo ment."
The back door was open and the draught blew through the house. Papers were flying about in the back yard. Helen
could see them lifting into the air like vast white moths.
"What do you want?" Anne-Marie asked.
"just to ask you about the old man."
The wom an frowned minutely. She looked as if she was sickening, Helen thought: her face had the colour and
texture of stale dough, her hair was lank and greasy.
"What old man?"
"Last time I was here, you told me about an old man who'd been murdered, do you remember?"
"N o."
"Y ou said he lived in the next court."
"I don't remember," Anne-Marie said.
"B ut you d istinctly told m e - "
Something fell to the floor in the kitchen, and smashed. Anne-Marie flinched, but did not move from the doorstep,
her arm barring Helen's way into the house. The hallway was littered with the child's toys, gnawed and battered.
"Are you all right?"
Anne-Marie nodded. "I've got work to do," she said.
"And you don't remember telling me about the old man?"
"You must have misunderstood," Anne-Marie replied, and then, her voice hushed: "You shouldn't have come.
Everybody kno ws."
"Knows what?"
The girl had begun to tremble. "You don't understand, do you? You think people aren't watching?"
"W hat do es it matter? All I asked was - "I d on't know anything," Anne-M arie reiterated. "W hateve r I said to you, I
lied ab out it."
"W ell, thank you anyway," Helen said, too perplexed b y the confusion of signals from Anne-M arie to press the point
any further.
Almost as soon as she had turned from the door she heard the lock snap closed behind her.
That conversation was only one of several disappointments that morning brought. She went back to the row of

shops, and visited the supermarket that Josie had spoken of. There she inquired about the lavatories, and their recent
history. The supermarket had only changed hands in the last month, and the new owner, a taciturn Pakistani, insisted
that he knew nothing of when or why the lavatories had been closed. She was aware, as she made her enquiries, of
being scrutinized by the other customers in the shop; she felt like a pariah. That feeling deepened when, after leaving
the supermarket, she saw Josie emerging from the launderette, and called after her only to have the woman pick up
her pace and duck aw ay into the maze of co rridors. Helen followed, but rap idly lost both her quarry and her way.
Frustrated to the verge of tears, she stood amongst the overturned rubbish bags, and felt a surge of contempt for her
foolishn ess. She didn't belong here, d id she? Ho w many times had she criticized others for their presump tion in
claiming to understand societies they had merely viewed from afar? And here was she, committing the same crime,
com ing here with her camera and her questions, using the lives (and deaths) of these people as fo dde r for pa rty
conversation. She didn't blame Anne-Marie for turning her back; had she deserved better?
Tired and chilled, she decided it was time to concede Purcell's point. It was all fiction she had been told. They had
played with her - sensing her desire to be fed some horrors - and she, the perfect fool, had fallen for every ridiculous
word. It was time to pack up her credulity and go home.
One call demanded to be made before she returned to the car however: she wanted to look a final time at the painted
head. Not as an anthropologist amongst an alien tribe, but as a confessed ghost train rider: for the thrill of it. Arriving
at number 14, however, she faced the last and most crushing disappointment. The maisonette had been sealed up by
conscientious council workmen. The do or was locked; the front window boarded over.
She was determined not to be so easily defeated however. She made her way around the back of Butts" Court and
located the yard of number 14 by simple mathematics. The gate was wedged closed from the inside, but she pushed
hard upon it, and, with effort on both parts, it opened. A heap of rubbish - rotted carpets, a box of rain-sodden
magazines, a denuded Christmas tree - had blocked it.
She crossed the yard to the boarded up windo ws, and peered thro ugh the slats of wo od. It wasn't bright o utside, b ut it
was darker still within; it was difficult to catch more than the vaguest hint of the painting on the bedroom wall. She
pressed her face close to the wood, eager for a final glimpse.
A shadow moved across the room, momentarily blocking her view. She stepped back from the window, startled, not
certain of what she'd seen. Perhaps mere ly her ow n shad ow, ca st through the window ? B ut then she had n't moved; it
had.
She approached the window again, more cautiously. The air vibrated; she could hear a muted whine from
somewhere, though she couldn't be certain whether it came from inside or out. Again, she put her face to the rough
boards, and suddenly, something leapt at the window. This time she let out a cry. There was a scrabbling sound from
within, as nails raked the wood.
A dog!; and a big one to have jumped so high.
"Stupid," she told herself aloud. A sudden sweat bathed her.
The scrabbling had stopped almost as soon as it had started, but she couldn't bring herself to go back to the window.
Clearly the workmen who had sealed up the maisonette had failed to check it properly, and incarcerated the animal
by mistake. It was ravenous, to judge by the slavering she'd heard; she was grateful she hadn't attempted to break in.
The dog - hungry, maybe half-ma d in the stinking darkness - could have taken out her thro at.
She stared at the boarded-up window. The slits between the boards were barely a half-inch wide, but she sensed that
the animal was up on its hind legs on the other side, watching her through the gap. She could hear its panting now
that her o wn breath wa s regularizing; she could hear its claws raking the sill.
"B lood y thing..." she said. " Damn well stay in there ."
She b acked off toward s the gate. Hosts of wood-lice and sp iders, d isturbed from their nests b y moving the carpets
behind the gate, were scurrying underfoot, looking for a fresh darkness to call home.
She closed the gate behind her, and was m aking her way aro und the front of the block when she heard the sirens;
two ugly spirals of sound that made the hair on the back of her neck tingle. They were approaching. She picked up
her speed, and came round into Butts" Court in time to see several policemen crossing the grass behind the bonfire
and an ambulance mounting the pavement and driving around to the other side of the quadrangle. People had
emerged from their flats and were standing on their balco nies, staring dow n. Others were walking aro und the cou rt,
nakedly curious, to join a gathering congregation. Helen's stomach seemed to drop to her bowels when she realized
where the hub of interest lay: at Anne-Marie's doorstep. The po lice were clearing a path through the throng for the
ambulance men. A second police-car had followed the route of the ambulance onto the pavement; two plain-clothes
officers w ere getting out.
She walked to the periphery of the crowd. What little talk there was amongst the on-lookers was conducted in low
voice s; one o r two o f the older women were crying. T hough she p eered over the heads of the spectators she cou ld
see nothing. Turning to a bearded man, whose child was perched on his shoulders, she asked what was going on. He

didn't know. Somebody dead, he'd heard, but he wasn't certain.
"Anne-Marie?" she asked.
A woman in front of her turned and said: "You know her?" almost awed, as if speaking of a loved one.
"A little," Helen replied hesitantly. "Can you tell me what's happened?"
The wom an involuntarily put her hand to her mouth, as if to stop the words before they came. But here they were
nevertheless: "The child - 'she said.
"Kerry?"
"So meb ody got into the house around the back . Slit his throa t."
Helen felt the sweat come again. In her mind's eye the newspapers rose and fell in Anne-Marie's yard.
"No," she said.
"Just like that."
She looked at the tragedian who was trying to sell her this obscenity, and said, "No," again. It defied belief; yet her
denials could not silence the horrid com prehension she felt.
She turned her back on the woman and paddled her way out of the crowd. There would be nothing to see, she knew,
and even if there had been she had no desire to look. These people - still emerging from their homes as the story
spread - were exhibiting an appetite she was disgusted by. She was not of them; would never be of them. She wanted
to slap every eager face into sense; wanted to say: "It's pain and grief you're going to spy on. Why? W hy?" But she
had no co urage left. Revulsion had drained her of all but the energy to wand er awa y, leaving the cro wd to its sport.
Trevor had come home. He did not attempt an explanation of his absence, but waited for her to cross-question him.
W hen she failed to do so he sa nk into an easy b onho mie that was wo rse than his expectant silence. She was dimly
aware that her disinterest was probably more unsettling for him than the histrionics he had been anticipating. She
couldn't have care d less.
She tuned the rad io to the local station, and listened for new s. It came surely enough, confirming what the woma n in
the crowd had told her. Kerry Latimer was dead. Person or persons unknown had gained access to the house via the
back yard and murdered the child while he played on the kitchen floor. A police spokesman mouthed the usual
platitudes, describing Ke rry's death as an "unspeakable crime", and the miscreant as "a dan gerous and deep ly
disturbed individual". For once, the rhetoric seemed justified, and the man's voice shook discernibly when he spoke
of the scene that had confronted the officers in the kitchen of Anne-Marie's house.
"W hy the radio?" Trevor casually inquired, when H elen had listened for news through three consecutive bulletins.
She saw no point in withholding her experience at Spector Street from him; he would find out sooner or later.
Coolly, she ga ve him a bald outline o f what had hap pened at B utts" Court.
"This Anne-Marie is the woman you first met when you went to the estate; am I right?"
She nodded , hoping he wouldn't ask her too many questions. Tears were close, and she had no intention of breaking
down in front of him.
"So you were right," he said.
"Right?"
"Abou t the plac e having a ma niac."
"N o," she said. " No ."
"B ut the kid - "
She got up and stood at the window, looking down two storeys into the darkened street below. Why did she feel the
need to reject the co nspiracy theory so urgently?; why was she now praying that Purcell had been right, and that all
she'd been told had been lies? She went back and back to the way Anne-Marie had been when she'd visited her that
morning: pale, jittery; expectant. She had been like a woman anticipating some arrival, hadn't she?, eager to shoo
unwanted visitors away so that she could turn back to the business of waiting. But waiting for what, or whom? W as
it possible that Anne-Marie actually knew the murderer? Had perhaps invited him into the house?
"I ho pe they find the b astard," she sa id, still watching the street.
"T hey will," T revor replied. "A baby-murd erer, for Christ's sake. They'll make it a high priority."
A man ap peared at the corner o f the street, turn ed, and whistled. A large Alsatian came to heel, and the two set off
dow n towards the Cathe dral.
"The dog," Helen murmured.
"What?"
She had forgotten the dog in all that had followed. Now the shock she'd felt as it had leapt at the window shook her
again.
"What dog?" Trevor pressed.
"I went back to the flat to day - where I took the pictures of the graffiti. There was a dog in there. Locked in."

"So?"
"It'll starve. N obo dy kno ws it's there."
"How do you know it wasn't locked in to kennel it?"
"It was making such a noise - she said.
"D ogs bark," Tre vor replied. "T hat's all they're good fo r."
"N o - " she said very quietly, remem bering the no ises through the boarded windo w. "It didn't bark..."
"Fo rget the d og," Tre vor said. "A nd the child. T here's nothing you can do about it. You we re just passing through."
His words only echoed her own thoughts of earlier in the day, but somehow - for reasons that she could find no
words to c onvey - that conviction ha d deca yed in the last hours. She wa s not just passing through. Nob ody ever just
passed through; experience always left its mark. Sometimes it merely scratched; on occasion it took off limbs. She
did not kno w the extent of her present wounding, but she knew it more profound than she yet understoo d, and it
made her afraid.
"W e're out of booze," she said, emptying the last dribble of whisky into her tumbler.
Trevor seemed pleased to have a reason to be accommodating. "I'll go out, shall I?" he said. "Get a bottle or two?"
"Sure," she replied. "If you like."
He was gone only half an hour; she would have liked him to have been longer. She didn't want to talk, only to sit and
think thro ugh the unease in her b elly. Though Tre vor had dismissed her co ncern for the d og - and perhaps justifiably
so - she couldn't help but go back to the locked maisonette in her mind's eye: to picture again the raging face on the
bedroom wall, and hear the animal's muffled growl as it pawed the boards over the window. Whatever Trevor had
said, she didn't believe the place was being used as a makeshift kennel. No, the dog was imprisoned in there, no
dou bt of it, runn ing round and round, d riven, in its desperation, to eat its own faece s, growing mo re insane with
every hour that passed. She became afraid that somebody - kids maybe, looking for more tinder for their bonfire would break into the place, ignorant of what it contained. It wasn't that she feared for the intruders" safety, but that
the dog, once liberated, would come for her. It would know where she was (so her drunken head construed) and
com e sniffing her out.
Trevor returned with the whisky, and they drank together until the early hours, when her stomach revolted. She took
refuge in the toilet - Trevor outside asking her if she needed anything, her telling him weakly to leave her alone.
W hen, an hour later, she emerged, he had gone to bed. She did not join him, but lay down on the sofa and dozed
through until dawn.
The murd er was news. The next morning it made all the tabloids as a front page splash, and found prominent
positions in the heavyweights too. There were photographs of the stricken mother being led from the house, and
others, blurred but potent, taken over the back yard wall and through the open kitchen door. Was that blood on the
floor, or shadow?
Helen did not bother to read the articles - her aching head rebelled at the thought - but Trevor, who had brought the
newspapers in, was eager to talk. She couldn't work out if this was further peacemaking on his part, or a genuine
interest in the issue.
"The wo man's in custody," he said, poring over the Daily Telegraph. It was a paper he was politically averse to, but
its coverage of violent crime was notoriously detailed.
The observation demanded Helen's attention, unwilling or not. "Custody?" she said. "Anne-Marie?"
"Y es."
"Let me see ."
He relinquished the paper, and she glanced over the page.
"Third column," Trevor prompted.
She fo und the place, and there it was in black and white. Anne-M arie had been taken into custody fo r questioning to
justify the time-lapse between the estimated hour of the child's death, and the time that it had been reported. Helen
read the relevant sentences over again, to be certain that she'd understood properly. Yes, she had. The police
pathologist estimated Kerry to have died between six and six-thirty that morning; the murder had not been reported
until twelve.
She read the report over a third and fourth time, but repetition did not change the horrid facts. The child had been
murdered before dawn. W hen she had gone to the house that morning Kerry had already been dead four hours. The
bod y had b een in the kitchen, a few yards down the hallway from where she had stoo d, and Anne -Marie had said
nothing. That air of expectancy she had had about her - what had it signified? That she awaited some cue to lift the
receiver and call the police?
"M y Christ..." Helen said, and let the paper d rop.
"What?"

"I have to go to the police."
"Why?"
"To tell them I went to the house," she replied. Trevor looked mystified. "The baby was dead, Trevor. When I saw
Anne-M arie yesterday m orning, Ke rry was already dead ."
She rang the number given in the paper for any persons offering information, and half an hour later a police car came
to pick her up. There was much that startled her in the two hours of interrogation that followed, not least the fact that
nobody had reported her presence on the estate to the police, though she had surely been noticed.
"T hey do n't want to know - " the detective told her, " - you'd think a place like that wo uld be swarming with
witnesses. If it is, they're not co ming fo rward . A crim e like this..."
"Is it the first?" she said.
He looked at her across a chaotic desk. "First?"
"I was told so me sto ries about the estate. M urders. Th is summ er."
The detective sho ok his head. "Not to my know ledge . There's been a sp ate of m uggings; one w oma n was p ut in
hosp ital for a we ek or so. B ut no; no murd ers."
She liked the detective. His eyes flattered her with their lingering, and his face with their frankness. Past caring
whether she so unde d foolish or no t, she said: "W hy do they tell lies like that. Abo ut peo ple having their eyes cut out.
Terrible things."
The detective scratched his long nose. "We get it too," he said. "People come in here, they confess to all kinds of
crap. T alk all night, some of them, ab out things they've done, or think they've done. Give you it all in the minutest
detail. A nd wh en you make a few calls, it's all invented. O ut of their m inds."
"M aybe if they didn't tell you the stories.., they'd actua lly go out and d o it."
The detective no dde d. "Y es," he said. "Go d help us. Yo u might be right at that."
And the stories she'd been told, were they confessions of uncommitted crimes?, accounts of the worst imaginable,
imagined to keep fiction from becoming fact? The thought chased its own tail: these terrible stories still needed a
first cause, a well-spring from which they leapt. As she walked home through the busy streets she wondered how
many of her fellow citizens knew such stories. Were these inventions common currency, as Purcell had claimed?
W as there a place, however sm all, reserved in every heart for the monstrous?
"Purcell rang," T revor told her whe n she go t home. "T o invite us out to d inner."
The invitation wasn't welcome, and she made a face.
"Appo llinaires, rem emb er?" he rem inded her. "H e said he'd take us all to dinner, if you p roved him wrong."
The thought of getting a dinner out of the death of Anne-Marie's infant was grotesque, and she said so.
"H e'll be offended if you turn him do wn."
"I don't give a dam n. I don't want dinner with P urcell."
"Please," he said softly. "H e can get difficult; and I want to kee p him smiling just at the mo ment."
She glanced across at him. The look he'd put on made him resemble a drenched spaniel. Manipulative bastard, she
thought; but said : "All right, I'll go. But d on't expect any d ancing on the tables."
"We'll leave that to Archie," he said. "I told Purcell we were free tomorrow night. Is that all right with you?"
"W henever."
"H e's booking a table for eight o" clock ."
The evening papers had relegated The Tragedy of Baby Kerry to a few column inches on an inside page. In lieu of
much fresh news they simply described the house-to-house enquiries that were now going on at Spector Street. Some
of the later editions mentioned that Anne-Marie had been released from custody after an extended period of
questioning, and was now residing with friends. They also mentioned, in passing, that" the funeral was to be the
following day.
Helen had not entertained any thoughts of going back to Spector Street for the funeral when she went to bed that
night, but sleep seemed to change her mind, and she woke with the decision made for her.
Death had brought the estate to life. W alking through to Ruskin Court from the street she had never seen such
numbers out and about. M any were already lining the kerb to watch the funeral cortege pass, and looked to have
claimed their niche early, despite the wind and the ever-present threat of rain. Some were wearing items of black
clothing - a coat, a scarf - but the overall impression, despite the lowered voices and the studied frowns, was one of
celebration. Children running around, untouched by reverence; occasional laughter escaping from between gossiping
adults - Helen could feel an air of anticip ation which made her spirits, despite the oc casion, almo st buoyant.
Nor was it simply the presence of so many people that reassured her; she was, she conceded to herself, happy to be
back here in Spector Street. The quadrangles, with their stunted saplings and their grey grass, were more real to her

than the carpeted corridors she was used to walking; the anonymous faces on the balconies and streets meant more
than her colleagues at the University. In a word, she felt home.
Finally, the cars appeared, moving at a snail's pace through the narrow streets. As the hearse came into view - its tiny
white casket decked with flowers - a number of women in the crowd gave quiet voice to their grief. One on-looker
fainted; a knot of anxious people gathered around her. Even the children were stilled now.
Helen watched, dry-eyed. Tears did not come very easily to her, especially in company. As the second car,
containing Anne-M arie and two other wom en, drew level with her, H elen saw that the bereaved m other was also
eschewing any public display of grief. She seemed, indeed, to be almost elevated by the proceedings, sitting upright
in the back of the car, her pallid features the source of much admiration. It was a sour thought, but Helen felt as
though she was seeing Anne-Marie's finest hour; the one day in an otherwise anonymous life in which she was the
centre of attention. Slowly, the cortege passed by and disappeared from view.
The crowd around Helen was already dispersing. She detached herself from the few mourners who still lingered at
the kerb and wandered through from the street into Butts" Court. It was her intention to go back to the locked
maiso nette, to se e if the do g was still there. If it was, she would put her mind at rest by find ing one of the e state
caretakers and informing him of the fact.
The quadrangle was, unlike the other courts, practically empty. Perhaps the residents, being neighbours of AnneMarie's, had gone on to the Cre mato rium for the service. W hatever the reason, the place was eerily deserted. O nly
children remained, playing around the pyramid bonfire, their voices echoing across the empty expanse of the square.
She reached the maisonette and was surprised to find the door open again, as it had been the first time she'd come
here. The sight of the interior made her light-headed. How often in the past several days had she imagined standing
here, gazing into that darkness. There was no sound from inside. The dog had surely run off; either that, or died.
There co uld be no harm, could there? , in stepp ing into the place one fina l time, just to look at the face on the wall,
and its attendant slogan.
Sweets to the sweet. She had never looked up the origins of that phrase. No matter, she thought. Whatever it had
stood for once, it was transformed here, as everything was; herself included. She stood in the front room for a few
moments, to allow herself time to savour the confrontation ahead. Far away behind her the children were screeching
like mad birds.
She steppe d over a clutter of furniture and towards the short co rridor that joined living-roo m to b edro om, still
delaying the mo ment. He r heart was quick in her: a smile played on her lips.
And there! At last! The portrait loomed, compelling as ever. She stepped ba ck in the murky room to admire it more
fully and her heel caught on the mattress that still lay in the corner. She glanced down. The squalid bedding had been
turned over, to present its untorn face. Some blankets and a rag-wrapped pillow had been tossed over it. Something
glistened amongst the folds of the uppermost blanket. She bent down to look more closely and found there a handful
of sweets - chocolates and caramels - wrapped in bright paper. And littered amongst them, neither so attractive nor
so sweet, a do zen razo r-blades. T here was blood o n several. She stoo d up again and ba cked aw ay from the mattress,
and as she did so a buzzing sound reached her ears from the next room. She turned, and the light in the bedroom
diminished as a figure stepped into the gullet between her and the outside world. Silhouetted against the light, she
could scarcely see the man in the doorway, bu t she sme lt him. He smelt like cand y-floss; and the buzzing w as with
him or in him.
"I just came to look - " she said, " - at the picture."
The buzzing went on: the sound of a sleepy afternoon, far from here. The man in the doorway did not move.
"W ell..." she sa id, "I've se en what I wanted to see." S he hoped against hope that her words would pro mpt him to
stand aside and let her past, but he didn't move, and she couldn't find the courage to challenge him by stepping
towards the door.
"I have to go," she said, knowing that despite her best efforts fear seeped between every syllable. "I'm expected ..."
That was not entirely untrue. T onight they were all invited to App ollinaires for dinner. B ut that wasn't until eight,
which was four hours away. She would not be missed for a lon g while yet.
"If you'll excuse me," she said.
The buzzing had quietened a little, and in the hush the m an in the doorway spoke . His unaccented voice w as almost
as swee t as his scen t.
"No need to leave yet," he breathed.
"I'm due... due..."
Though she co uldn't see his eyes, she felt them o n her, and they mad e her fee l drow sy, like that sum mer that sang in
her head.
"I came for you," he said.
She repeated the four words in her head. I came for you. If they were meant as a threat, they certainly weren't spoken

as one.
"I don't... know you," she said.
"N o," the man m urmured. " But you do ubted me."
"Doubted?"
"Y ou weren't content with the stories, with what they wrote on the walls. So I was obliged to come."
The drowsiness slowed her mind to a crawl, but she grasped the essentials of what the man was saying. That he was
legend, and she, in disbelieving him, had obliged him to show his hand. She looked, now, down at those hands. One
of them was missing. In its place, a hook.
"There will be some blame," he told her. "They will say your doubts shed innocent blood. But I say - what's blood
for, if not for shedding? And in time the scrutiny will pass. The police will leave, the cameras will be pointed at
some fresh horro r, and they will be left alone, to tell stories of the C andyman again."
"Candyman?" she said. Her tongue could barely shape that blameless word.
"I came for you," he murmured so softly that seduction might have been in the air. And so saying, he moved through
the passagew ay and into the light.
She knew him, without doubt. She had known him all along, in that place kept for terrors. It was the man on the
wall. His portrait painter had not been a fantasist: the picture that howled over her was matched in each
extraordinary particular by the man she now set eyes upon. He was bright to the point of gaudiness: his flesh a waxy
yellow, his thin lips pale blue, his wild eyes glittering as if their irises were set with rubies. His jacket was a
patchwork his trousers the same. He looked, she thought, almost ridiculous, with his bloodstained motley, and the
hint of rouge on his jaundice d che eks. B ut peo ple we re facile. T hey nee ded these shows and sha ms to keep their
interest. Miracles; murders; demons driven out and stones roiled from tombs. The cheap glamour did not taint the
sense b eneath. It was only, in the natural history of the m ind, the b right feathe rs that drew the species to mate with
its secret self.
And she was almost enchanted. By his voice, by his colours, by the buzz from his body. She fought to resist the
rapture, though. T here w as a monster here, beneath this fetching disp lay; its nest of razors w as at her feet, still
drenched in blood. W ould it hesitate to slit her own throat if it once laid hands on her?
As the Candyman reached for her she dropped down and snatched the blanket up, flinging it at him. A rain of razors
and sweetmeats fell around his shoulders. The blanket followed, blinding him. But before she could snatch the
moment to slip past him, the pillow which had lain on the blanket rolled in front of her.
It was not a pillow at all. W hatever the forlorn white casket she had seen in the hearse had contained, it was not the
body of Baby Kerry. That was here, at her feet, its blood-drained face turned up to her. He was naked. His body
showed everywhere signs o f the fiend's attentions.
In the two heartb eats she took to register this last horror, the Candyma n threw off the blanket. In his struggle to
escap e from its folds, his jacket had come un buttoned, and she saw - tho ugh her senses protested - that the contents
of his torso had rotted away, and the hollow was now occu pied by a nest of bees. They swarmed in the vault of his
chest, and encrusted in a seething mass the remnants of flesh that hung there. He smiled at her plain repugnance.
"Sweets to the sweet," he murmured, and stretched his hooked hand towards her face. She could no longer see light
from the outside world, nr hear the children playing in Butts" Court. There was no escape into a saner world than
this. The Candym an filled her sight; her drained limbs had no strength to hold him at bay.
"Don't kill me," she breathed.
"Do you believe in me?" he said.
She nodded minutely. "How can I not?" she said.
"Then why do you want to live?"
She didn't understand, and was afraid her ignorance would prove fatal, so she said nothing.
"If you would learn," the fiend said, "just a little from me... you would not beg to live." His voice had dropped to a
whisper. "I am rumour," he sang in her ear. "It's a blessed condition, believe me. To live in people's dreams; to be
whispered at street-corners; but not have to be. Do you understand?"
Her weary body understood . Her nerves, tired of jangling, understood. The sweetness he offered was life without
living: was to be dead , but rem emb ered everyw here; im mortal in gossip and graffiti.
"Be my victim," he said.
"No..." she murmured.
"I wo n't force it upon you," he replied , the perfect gen tleman. "I wo n't oblige yo u to die. But think; think. If I kill
you here - if I unhook you..." he traced the path of the promised wound with his hook. It ran from groin to neck.
"Think how they would mark this place with their talk... point it out as they passed by and say: "She died there; the
woman with the green eyes". Your death would be a parable to frighten children with. Lovers would use it as an
excuse to cling close rtogether..."

She had been right: this was a seduction.
"Was fame ever so easy?" he asked.
She sh ook her head. "I'd prefer to be forgotten," she replied, 'than be rememb ered like that."
He made a tiny shrug. "What do the good know?" he said. "Except what the bad teach them by their excesses?" He
raised his hooked hand. "I said I would not oblige you to die and I'm true to my word. Allow me, though, a kiss at
least..."
He moved towards her. She murmured some nonsensical threat, which he ignored. The buzzing in his body had risen
in volume. The thought of touching his body, of the proximity of the insects, was horrid. She forced her lead-heavy
arms up to keep him at bay.
His lurid face eclipsed the portrait on the wall. She couldn't bring herself to touch him, and instead stepped ba ck.
The sound o f the bees rose; some, in their excitement, had crawled up his throat and were flying from his mouth.
They climbed abo ut his lips; in his hair.
She b egged him over and o ver to leave he r alone , but he w ould not be placated. At last she had nowhere left to
retreat to; the wall was at her back. Steeling herself against the stings, she put her hands on his crawling chest and
pushed. As she did so his hand shot out and around the back of her neck, the hook nicking the flushed skin of her
throat. She felt blood come; felt certain he would open her jugular in one terrible slash. But he had given his word:
and he was true to it.
Aroused by this sudden activity, the bees were everywhere. She felt them moving on her, searching for morsels of
wax in her ears, and sugar at her lips. She ma de no attempt to swat them away. The hook was at her neck. If she so
much as moved it would wound her. She was trapped, as in her childhood nightmares, with every chance of escape
stymied. When sleep bad brought her to such hopelessness - the demons on every side, waiting to tear her limb from
limb - one trick remained. To let go; to give up all ambition to life, and leave her body to the dark. Now, as the
Candyman's face pressed to hers, and the sound of bees blotted out even her own breath, she played that hidden
hand. And, as surely as in dreams, the room and the fiend were painted out and gone.
She woke from brightness into dark. There were several panicked mom ents when she couldn't think of where she
was, then several more when she rememb ered. But there was no pain about her body. She put her hand to her neck;
it was, barring the nick of the hook, untouched. She was lying on the mattress she realized. Had she been assaulted
as she lay in a faint? Gingerly, she investigated her body. She was not bleeding; her clothes were not disturbed. The
Cand yman had , it seemed, simply claimed his kiss.
She sa t up. T here w as pre cious little light through the board ed window - and none from the front d oor. Perh aps it
was closed, she reasoned. But no; even now she heard somebody whispering on the threshold. A woman's voice.
She didn't move. They were crazy, these people. They had known all along what her presence in Butts" Court had
summo ned, and they had pro tected him - this honeyed psychop ath; given him a bed and an o ffering of bonbo ns,
hidden him away from prying eyes, and kept their silence when he brought blood to their doorsteps. Even AnneMarie, dry-eyed in the hallway of her house, kno wing that her child was dead a few yards away.
The child! That was the evidence she needed. Somehow they had conspired to get the body from the casket (what
had they substituted; a dead dog?) and brought it here - to the Candyman's tabernacle - as a toy, or a lover. She
would take Baby Kerry with her - to the police - and tell the whole story. Whatever they believed of it - and that
would probably be very little - the fact of the child's body was incontestable. That way at least some of the crazies
would suffer for their conspiracy. Suffer for her suffering.
The whispering at the door had stopped. No w somebod y was moving towards the bedroom. They didn't bring a light
with them. Helen made herself small, hoping she might escape detection.
A figure appeared in the doorway. The gloom was too impenetrable for her to make out more than a slim figure, who
bent down and picked up a bundle on the floor. A fall of blonde hair identified the newcomer as Anne-Marie: the
bund le she was pick ing up was undoubtedly Kerry's corpse. W ithout looking in Helen's direction, the m other aboutturned and made her way out of the bedroom.
Helen listened as the footsteps receded across the living-room. Swiftly, she got to her feet, and crossed to the
passa geway. From there she cou ld vaguely see Anne -Marie's outline in the do orwa y of the maisonette. No lights
burned in the quadrangle beyond. The woman disappeared and Helen followed as speedily as she could, eyes fixed
on the door ahead. She stumbled once, and onc e again, but reached the door in time to see Anne-Marie's vague form
in the night ahead.
She stepped out of the maisonette and into the open air. It was chilly; there were no stars. All the lights on the
balconies and corridors were out, nor did any burn in the flats; not even the glow of a television. Butts" Court was
deserted.
She hesitated before going in pursuit of the girl. Why didn't she slip away now?, cowardice coaxed her, and find her

way back to the car. But if she did that the conspirators would have time to conceal the child's body. When she got
back here with the police there wo uld be sealed lips and shrugs, and she would b e told she had imagined the co rpse
and the Candyman. All the terrors she had tasted would recede into rumour again. Into words on a wall. And every
day she lived from now o n she would loathe herself for not go ing in pursuit of sanity.
She followed. Anne-Marie was not making her way around the quadrangle, but moving towards the centre of the
lawn in the middle of the court. To the bonfire! Yes; to the bonfire! It loomed in front of Helen now, blacker than the
night-sky. She could just make out Anne-M arie's figure, moving to the edge of the piled timbers and furniture, and
ducking to c limb into its heart. T his was how they planned to remo ve the evidence. T o bury the child was no t certain
enough; but to cremate it, and pound the bones - who would ever know?
She stood a dozen yards from the pyramid and watched as Anne-M arie climbed out again and mo ved away, folding
her figure into the darkne ss.
Quickly, Helen moved through the long grass and located the narrow space in amongst the piled timbers into which
Anne-Marie had p ut the bod y. S he thou ght she could see the pale form; it had b een laid in a hollo w. She couldn't
reach it however. Thanking God that she was as slim as the mother, she squeezed through the narrow aperture. Her
dress snagged on a nail as she did so. She turned round to disengage it, fingers trembling. When she turned back she
had lost sight of the corpse.
She fumbled blindly ahead of her, her hands finding wood and rags and what felt like the back of an old armchair,
but no t the cold skin o f the child. She had ha rdened he rself against contact with the bod y: she had endured worse in
the last hours than picking up a dead baby. Determined not to be defeated, she advanced a little further, her shins
scraped and her fingers spiked with splinters. Flashes of light were appearing at the corners of her aching eyes; her
blood whined in her ears. But there!; there!; the body was no more than a yard and a half ahead of her. She ducked
down to reach beneath a beam of wood, but her fingers missed the forlorn bundle by millimetres. She stretched
further, the whine in her head increasing, but still she co uld no t reach the child. All she could do was bend doub le
and squeeze into the hidey-hole the children had left in the centre of the bonfire.
It was difficult to get thro ugh. T he space was so sm all she co uld barely cra wl on hands and knees; but she mad e it.
The child lay face down. She fought back the remnants of squeamishness and went to pick it up. As she did so,
something landed on her arm. The shock startled her. She almost cried out, but swallowed the urge, and brushed the
irritation away. It buzzed as it rose from her skin. The whine she had heard in her ears was not her blood, but the
hive.
"I knew you'd come," the voice behind her said, and a wide hand covered her face. She fell backwards and the
Candyman emb raced her.
"W e have to go," he said in her ear, as flickering light spilled between the stacked timbers. "Be on our way, you and
I."
She fought to be free of him, to cry out for them not to light the bonfire, but he held her lovingly close. The light
grew: warmth came with it; and through the kindling and the first flames she could see figures approaching the pyre
out of the darkness of Butts" Court. They had been there all along: waiting, the lights turned out in their homes, and
broken all along the corrid ors. T heir final co nspiracy.
The bonfire caught with a will, but by some trick of its construction the flames did not invade her hiding-place
quickly; nor did the smoke creep through the furniture to choke her. She was able to watch how the children's faces
gleam ed; ho w the parents called the m from going too close, and how they disobe yed; ho w the old women, their
blood thin, warmed their hands and smiled into the flames. Presently the roar and the crackle became deafening, and
the Candy-man let her scream herself hoarse in the certain knowledge that nobody could hear her, and even if they
had would not have moved to claim her from the fire.
The bees vacated the fiend's belly as the air became hotter, and mazed the air with their panicked flight. Some,
attemp ting escape, ca ught fire, and fell like tiny meteors to the ground . The body of B aby K erry, which lay close to
the creeping flames, began to cook. Its downy hair smoked, its back blistered.
Soon the heat crept down Helen's throat, and scorched her pleas away. She sank back, exhausted, into the
Candyman's arms, resigned to his triumph. In moments they would be on their way, as he had promised, and there
was no help for it.
Perhaps they would remember her, as he had said they might, finding her cracked skull in tomorrow's ashes. Perhaps
she might become, in time, a story with which to frighten children. She had lied, saying she preferred death to such
questionable fame; she did not. As to her seducer, he laughed as the conflagration sniffed them out. There was no
permanence for him in this night's death. His deeds were on a hundred walls and a ten thousand lips, and should he
be doubted again his congregation could summon him with sweetness. He had reason to laugh. So, as the flames
crept upon them, did she, as through the fire she caught sight of a familiar face moving between the on-lookers. It
was Trevor. He had forsaken his meal at Appollinaires and come looking for her.

She watched him questioning this fire-watcher and that, but they shook their heads, all the while staring at the pyre
with smiles buried in their eyes. Poor dupe, she thought, following his antics. She willed him to look past the flames
in the hope that he migh t see her burning. Not so tha t he could save her fro m de ath - she was long past ho pe of that but because she p itied him in his bew ilderment and wanted to give him, though he w ould not have thanked her for it,
something to be haunted by. That, and a story to tell.
THE END

THE MADONNA
Jerry Coloqhoun waited on the steps of the Leopold Road Sw imming Pools for over thirty-five minutes before
Garvey turned up , his feet stead ily losing feeling as the cold crept up thro ugh the souls of his shoes. The time would
come , he reassured him self, when he'd be the one to leave peo ple waiting. Indeed such prero gative might not be so
far away, if he could persuade Ezra Garvey to invest in the Pleasure Dome . It would require an appetite for risk, and
substantial assets, b ut his contacts had assured him that G arvey, whateve r his reputation, p ossessed b oth in
abundance. T he source o f the man's money was not an issue in the proceedings, or so Jerry ha d persuad ed him self.
Many a nicer plutocrat had turned the project down flat in the last six months; in such circumstances fineness of
feeling was a luxury he could scarcely afford.
He was not all that surprised by the reluctance of investors. These were difficult times, and risks were not to be
unde rtaken lightly. More, it too k a me asure of im agination - a faculty not over-abundant amo ngst the mo neyed he'd
met - to see the Pools transformed into the gleaming amenity complex he envisaged. But his researches had
convinced him that in an area like this - where houses once teetering on demolition were being bought up and
refurbished by a generatio n of middle-class sybarites - that in such an a rea the facilities he ha d planned could
scarcely fail to ma ke mo ney.
There wa s a further inducement. The Co uncil, who ow ned the Po ols, was eager to off-loa d the p roperty as speedily
as po ssible; it had d eb tors aplenty. Jerry's bribe e at the D irectorate of Com mu nity S ervices - the same ma n who'd
happily filched the keys to the property for two bottles of gin - had told him that the building could be purchased for
a song if the offer was made swiftly. It was all a question of good timing.
A skill, apparently, which Garvey lacked. By the time he arrived the numbness had spread north to Jerry's knees, and
his temper had worn thin. He mad e no show of it, however, as Garvey got out of his chauffeur-driven Rover and
came up the steps. Jerry had only spoken to him by telephone, and had expected a larger man, but despite the lack of
stature the re was no doubting Garvey's authority. It was there in the plain look of appraisal he gave Co loqhoun; in
the joyless features; in the immaculate suit.
The pair shook hands.
"It's goo d to see you, M r. Garvey."
The man nodded, but returned no pleasantry. Jerry, eager to be out of the cold, opened the front door and led the way
inside.
"I've only got ten minutes," Garvey said.
"Fine," Je rry replied. "I just wanted to show you the lay-out."
"You've surveyed the place?"
"O f course."
This was a lie. Jerry had been over the building the previous A ugust, courtesy of a con tact in the Architects"
Department, and had, since that time, looked at the place from the outside several times. But it had been five months
since he'd actually stepped into the building; he hoped accelerating decay had not taken an unshakeable hold since
then. They stepped into the vestibule. It smelled damp, but not overpoweringly so.
"T here's no electricity o n," he explained. " W e have to go b y torchlight." H e fished the heavy-duty torch from his
pocket and trained the beam on the inner door. It was padlocked. He stared at the lock, dumbfounded. If this door
had been locked last time he was here, he didn't remember. H e tried the single key he'd been given, knowing before
he put it to the lock that the two were hopelessly mismatched. He cursed under his breath, quickly skipping through
the options available. Either he and Garvey about-turned, and left the Pools to its secrets - if mildew, creeping rot
and a roof that was within an ace of surrender could be classed as secrets - or else he made an attempt to break in.
He glanced at Garvey, who had taken a prodigious cigar from his inside pocket and was stroking the end with a

flame; velvet smoke billowed.
"I'm sorry about the delay," he said.
"It happens," Garvey returned, clearly unperturbed.
"I think strong-arm tactics may be called for," Jerry said, feeling out the other man's response to a break in.
"Suits me."
Jerry quickly rooted about the darkened vestibule for an implement. In the ticket booth he found a metal-legged
stool. H oisting it ou t of the booth he cro ssed b ack to the do or - awa re of G arvey's am used but be nign gaze up on him
- and, using one of the legs as a lever, broke a shackle of the padlock. The lock clattered to the tiled floor.
"O pen sesame," he murm ured with som e satisfactio n, and pushe d the d oor open for G arvey.
The sound of the falling loc k seem ed still to linger in the d eserted corrid ors when they steppe d through, its din
receding towards a sigh as it diminished. The interior looked more inhospitable than Jerry had remembered . The
fitful daylight that fell through the mildewed panes of the skylights along the corridor was blue-grey - the light and
that which it fell upon vying in dreariness. Once, no doubt, the Leopold Road Pools had been a showcase of Deco
design - of shining tiles and cunning mosaics worked into floor and wall. But not in Jerry's adult life, certainly. The
tiles underfoot had long since lifted with the damp; along the walls they had fallen in their hundreds, leaving patterns
of white ceramic and dark plaster like some vast and clueless crossword puzzle. The air of destitution was so
profound that Jerry had half a mind to give up his attempt at selling the project to Garvey on the spot. Surely there
was no hope of a sale here, even at the ludicrously low asking price. But Garvey seemed m ore engaged than Jerry
had allowed. He was already stalking down the corridor, puffing on his cigar and grunting to himself as he went. It
could be no mo re than morbid curiosity, Jerry felt, that took the developer deeper into this echoing mausoleum. And
yet:
"It's atmo spheric. The place has possibilities," G arvey sa id. "I d on't have much of a rep utation a s a philanthropist,
Coloqhoun - you must know that - but I've go t a taste for some of the fine r things." He had p aused in front of a
mosaic depicting a nond escript mythological scene - fish, nymphs and sea-gods at play. He grunted appreciative ly,
describing the sinuous line of the design with the wet end of his cigar.
"Y ou do n't see craftsma nship like that now ad ays," he comm ented. Jerry thought it unrema rkab le, but said, "It's
superb."
"Show m e the rest."
The complex had once boasted a host of facilities - sauna rooms, turkish baths, thermal baths - in addition to the two
pools. These various areas were connected by a warren of passageways which, unlike the main corridor, had no
skylights: torchlight had to suffice here. Dark or no, Garvey wanted to see all of the public areas. The ten minutes he
had warned were his limit stretched into twenty and thirty, the exploration constantly brought to a halt as he
discovered some new felicity to comm ent upo n. Jerry liste ned w ith feigned com prehensio n: he found the ma n's
enthusiasm for the decor confounding.
"I'd like to see the p ools now," Garvey announced when they'd made a thorough investigation of the subordinate
amenities. Dutifully, Jerry led the way through the labyrinth towards the two pools. In a small corridor a little way
from the Turkish Baths Garvey said:
"H ush."
Jerry stopped walking. "What?"
"I heard a voice.
Jerry listened. The torch-beam, splashing off the tiles, threw a pale luminescence around them, which drained the
blood from G arvey's features.
"I don't hear-"
"I said hush," Garvey snappe d. He mo ved his head to and fro slowly. Jerry co uld hear nothing. N either, no w, cou ld
Garvey. He shrugged, and pulled on his cigar. It had gone out, killed by the damp air.
"A trick of the corridors," Jerry said. "The echoes in this place are misleading. Sometimes you hear your own
footsteps coming back to meet you.
Garvey grunted again. The grunt seemed to be his most valued part of speech. "I did hear something," he said,
clearly not satisfied with Jerry's explanation. He listened again. The corridors were pin-drop hushed. It was not even
possible to hear the traffic in Leo pold Road. A t last, Garvey see med content.
"Lead on," he said. Jerry did just that, though the route to the pools was by no means clear to him. They took several
wrong turnings, winding their way through a maze of identical corridors, before they reached their intended
destination.
"It's warm," said G arvey, as they stood o utside the smaller of the two p ools.
Jerry murmured his agreement. In his eagerness to reach the pools he had not noticed the steadily escalating
temperature . But now that he stoo d still he co uld feel a film of swe at on his bod y. The air was humid, and it smelt

not of damp and mildew, as elsewhere in the building, but of a sicklier, almo st opulent, scent. He hope d G arvey,
cocoon ed in the smoke of his re-lit cigar could not share the sm ell; it was far from pleasant.
"The heating's on," Garvey said.
"It certainly seems like it," Jerry returned, though he couldn't think why. Perhaps the Department Engineers warmed
the heating system through once in a while, to keep it in working order. In which case, were they in the bowels of the
building som ewhere? P erhap s Garvey had hea rd vo ices? He mentally constructed a line of explana tion sho uld their
paths cross.
"The p ools," he said, and pulled open one of the double-doors. The skylight here was even dirtier than those in the
main corridor; precious little light illuminated the scene. Garvey was not to be thwarted, however. He stepped
through the door and across to the lip of the pool. There was little to see; the surfaces here were covered with several
years" growth of mould. On the bottom of the pool, barely discernible beneath the algae, a design had been worked
into the tiles. A bright fish-eye glanced up at them, perfectly thoughtless.
"Always had a fear of water," G arvey sa id rum inatively as he stared into the drained p ool. " Do n't know where it
com es from ."
"Childhood," Jerry ventured.
"I don't think so," the other rep lied. "M y wife says it's the wo mb."
"The womb?"
"I didn't like swimming around in there, she says," he replied, with a smile that might have been at his own expense,
but was more likely at that of his wife.
A short sound came to meet them across the empty expanse of the pool, as of something falling. Garvey froze. "You
hear that?" he said. "There's somebody in here." His voice had suddenly risen half an octave.
"Rats," Je rry replied. H e wished to avoid an enc ounter with the enginee rs if possible; difficult questions might well
be asked.
"Give me the torch," Garvey said, snatching it from Jerry's hand. He scanned the opp osite side of the pool with the
beam. It lit a series of dressing rooms, and an open door that led out of the pool. Nothing moved.
"I don't like vermin-" Garvey said.
"The place has been neglected," Jerry replied.
"- especially the human variety." Garvey thrust the torch back into Jerry's hands. "I've got enemies, Mr. Coloqhoun.
But then you've done your researches on me, haven't you? You know I'm no lily-white." Garvey's concern about the
noises he thought he'd heard now made unpalatable sense. It wasn't rats he was afraid of, but grievous bodily harm.
"I think I should be going," he said. "Show me the other p ool and we 'll be away."
"Surely." Jerry was as happy to be going as his guest. The incident had raised his temperature. The sweat came
profusely now, trickling down the back of his neck. His sinuses ached. He led Garvey across the hallway to the door
of the larger pool and pulled. The door refused him.
"Problem?"
"It must be locked from the inside."
"Is there another way in?"
"I think so. Do you want me to go round the back?"
Garvey glanced at his watch. "T wo m inutes," he said. "I've got appointments."
Garvey watched Coloq ho un disapp ear dow n the darkened corridor, the torchlight running on ahead of him. He didn't
like the man. He was too closely shaven; and his shoes were Italian. But - the proposer aside - the project had some
merit. Garvey liked the Poo ls and their adjuncts, the uniformity of their design, the banality of their decorations.
Unlike many, he found institutions reassuring: hospitals, schools, even prisons. They smacked of social order, they
soothed that part of him fearful of chaos. Better a world too organized than one not organized enough.
Again, his cigar had gone out. He put it between his teeth and lit a match. As the first flare died, he caught an inkling
sight of a naked girl in the corridor ahead, watching him. The glimpse was momentary, but when the match dropped
from his fingers and the light failed, she appeared in his mind's eye, perfectly remembered. She was young - fifteen
at the most - and her body full. The sweat o n her skin lent her such sensuality she might ha ve step ped from his
dream-life. Dropping his stale cigar, he rummaged for another match and struck it, but in the meagre seconds of
darkness the child-beauty had gone, leaving only the trace of her sweet body scent on the air.
"Girl?" he said.
The sight of her nudity, and the shock in her eyes, made him eager for her.
"Girl?"
The flame of the second match failed to penetrate more than a yard or two down the corridor.
"Are you there?"
She could not be far, he reasoned. Lighting a third ma tch, he went in search of her. He had gone a few step s only

when he heard som ebod y behind him. H e turned. T orchlight lit the fright on his face. It was only the Italian Shoes.
"T here's no way in."
"There's no need to blind me," Garvey said. The beam dropped.
"I'm sorry."
"T here's someb ody here, Coloq houn. A girl."
"A girl?"
"You know something about it maybe?"
"N o."
"She was stark naked. Standing three or four yards from m e."
Jerry looked at Garvey, mystified. Was the man suffering from sexual delusions?
"I tell you I saw a girl," Garvey protested, though no word of contradiction had been offered. "If you hadn't arrived
I'd have had my hands on her." He glanced back dow n the corridor. "Get some light down there." Jerry trained the
beam on the maze. There was no sign of life.
"Damn," said Garvey, his regret quite genuine. He looked back at Jerry. "All tight," he said. "Let's get the hell out of
here."
"I'm interested," he said, as they parted on the step. "The p roject has potential. Do you have a ground-plan of the
place?"
"N o, but I can ge t my hands on one."
"D o that." Garvey wa s lighting a fresh cigar. "And send me your p roposals in m ore d etail. Then we'll talk again."
It took a considerable bribe to get the plans of the Pools out of his contact at the Architects" Department, but Jerry
eventually secured them. On paper the comp lex looked like a labyrinth. And, like the best labyrinths, there was no
order apparent in the layout of shower-rooms and bathrooms and changing-rooms. It was Carole who proved that
thesis wrong.
"W hat is this?" she asked him as he pored over the plans that evening. T hey'd had four or five hours together at his
flat - hours without the bickering and the bad feeling that had soured their time together of late.
"It's the ground-plan of the swimming pools on Leopold Road. Do you want another brandy?"
"No thanks." She peered at the plan while he got up to re-fill his glass.
"I think I've got G arvey in on the deal."
"You're going to do business with him, are you?"
"D on't make me sound like a white slaver. T he ma n's got mo ney."
"D irty money."
"What's a little dirt between friends?"
She looked at him frostily, and he wished he could have played back the previous ten seconds and erased the
com ment.
"I need this project," he said, taking his drink across to the sofa and sitting opposite her, the ground-plan spread on
the low table between diem . "I nee d som ething to go right for me for once."
Her eyes refused to grant him a reprieve.
"I just think Garvey and his like are bad news," she said. "I don't care how much money he's got. He's a villain,
Jerry."
"So I should give the whole thing up, should I? Is that what you're saying?" T hey'd had this argument, in one guise
or another, several times in the last few weeks. "I should just forget all the hard lab our I've p ut in, and add this
failure to all the others?"
"T here's no need to shout."
"I'm no t shouting !"
She sh rugged. "A ll tight," she sa id quietly, "you're not sho uting."
"Christ!"
She went back to perusing the ground-plan. He watched her from over the rim of his whisky tumbler; at the parting
down the middle of her head, and the fine blonde hair that divided from there. They made so little sense to each
other, he thought. The proce sses that brought them to their present impasse were perfectly obvious, yet time and
again they failed to find the common ground necessary for a fruitful exchange of views. Not simply on this matter,
on half a hundred o thers. W hateve r thoughts buzzed bene ath her tender scalp, they were a mystery to him . And his
to her, p resum ably.
"It's a spiral," she said.
"What is?"
"T he po ol. It's designed like a spiral. Look."

He stood up to get a bird's eye view of the ground-plan as she traced a route through the passageways with her index
finger. She was right. Though the imperatives of the architects" brief had muddied the clarity of the image, there was
indeed a rough spiral built into the maze of corridors and rooms. Her circling fingers drew tighter and yet tighter
loop s as it desc ribed the shap e. At last it came to rest on the large poo l; the locked pool. H e stared at the plan in
silence. W ithout her pointing it out he knew he could have looked at the design for a week and never seen the
underlying structure.
Carole decided she would not stay the night. It was not, she tried to explain at the door, that things between them
were over; only that she valued their intimacy too much to mis-use it as bandaging. He half-grasped the point; she
too pictured them as wounded animals. At least they had some metaphorical life in common.
He was no t unused to sleep ing alone. In m any ways he preferred to b e solitary in his bed than to sh are it with
someone, even Caro le. But tonight he wanted her with him; not her, eve n, but so meb ody. H e felt sourcelessly fretful,
like a child. W hen sleep came it fled again, as if in fear of dreams.
Some time towards dawn he got up, preferring wakefulness to that wretched sleep-hopping, wrapped his dressing
gown around his shivering body, and went through to brew himself some tea. The ground-plan was still spread on
the coffee-table where they had left it from the night before. Sipping the warm sweet Assam, he stood and pondered
over it. Now that Carole had pointed it out, all he could concentrate upon - despite the clutter of marginalia that
demanded his attention - was the spiral, that undisputable evidence of a hidden band at work beneath the apparent
chaos of the maze. It seized his eye and seduced it into following its unremitting route, round and round, tighter and
tighter; and towards w hat?: a locked swim ming p ool.
Tea drunk, he returned to bed; this time, fatigue got the better of his nerves and the sleep he'd been denied washed
over him. He was woken at seven-fifteen by Carole, who was phoning before she went to work to apologize for the
previous night.
"I don't want everything to go w rong betwe en us, Je rry. Yo u do know that, don't you? Y ou know yo u're precious to
me."
He couldn't take love-talk in the morning. What seemed romantic at midnight struck him as ridiculous at dawn. He
answered her declarations of commitment as best he could, and made an arrangement to see her the following
evening. Then he returned to his pillow.
Sc arcely a quarter hou r had passed since he'd visited the Poo ls w ithout Ezra G arvey thinking of the girl he'd
glimpsed in the corridor. Her face had come back to him during dinner with his wife and sex with his mistress. So
untrammelled, that face, so bright with possibilities.
Garvey thought of himself as a woman's man. Unlike most of his fellow potentates, whose consorts were a
convenience best paid to be absent when not required for some specific function, Garvey enjoyed the company of
the opposite sex. Their voices, their perfume, their laughter. His greed for their proximity knew few bounds; they
were precious creatures whose company he was willing to spend small fortunes to secure. His jacket was therefore
weighed down with money and expensive trinkets when he returned, that morning, to Leopold Road.
The pedestrians on the street were too concerned to keep their heads dry (a cold and steady drizzle had fallen since
dawn) to notice the man on the step standing under a black umbrella while another bent to the business of undoing
the padlock. Cha ndaman was an expe rt with locks. The shackle sna ppe d op en within seconds. G arvey lo wered his
umbrella and slipped into the vestibule.
"W ait here," he instructed Chandaman. "And close the door."
"Y es, sir."
"If I need you, I'll shout. You got the torch?"
Chandama n produced the torch from his jacket. Garvey took it, switched it on, and disappeared down the corridor.
Either it was substantially colder outside than it had been the day before yesterday, or else the interior was hot. He
unbuttoned his jacket, and loosened his tightly-knotted tie. He welcomed the heat, reminding him as it did of the
sheen on the dream-girl's skin, of the heat-languored look in her dark eyes. He advanced down the corridor, the
torch-light splashing off the tiles. His sense of direction had always been good; it took him a short time only to find
his way to the spot outside the large pool where he had encountered the girl. There he stood still, and listened.
Garvey was a man used to looking over his shoulder. All his professional life, whether in or out of prison, he had
needed to watch for the assassin at his back. Such ceaseless vigilance had made him sensitive to the least sign of
human presence. Sounds another man might have ignored played a warning tattoo upon his eardrum. But here?;
nothing. Silence in the corridors; silence in the sweating ante-rooms and the Turkish baths; silence in every tiled
enclave from one end of the building to the other. And yet he knew he was not alone. When five senses failed him a
sixth - belonging, perhaps, more to the beast in him than the sophisticate his expensive suit spoke of- sensed
presences. This faculty had saved his hide more than once. Now, he hoped, it would guide him into the arms of

beauty.
Trusting to instinct, he extinguished the torch and he aded off down the co rridor from which the girl had first
emerged, feeling his way along the walls. His quarry's pre sence tantalized him. H e suspected she was a mere wall
away, keeping pace with him along some secret passage he had no access to. The thought of this stalking pleased
him. She and he, alone in this sweating maze, playing a game that both knew must end in capture. He moved
stealthily, his pulse ticking off the seconds of the ch ase at ne ck and wrist and groin. H is crucifix was glued to his
breast-bone with perspiration.
At last, the corridor divided . He halted. T here w as precious little light: what there was etched the tunne ls
decep tively. Impossible to judge distance. B ut trusting to his instinct, he turned left and followe d his nose. Alm ost
immediately, a door. It was open, and he walked through into a larger space; or so he guessed from the muted sound
of his footsteps. Again, he stood still. This time, his straining ears were rewarded with a sound. Across the room
from him, the soft pad of naked feet on the tiles. Was it his imagination, or did he even glimpse the girl, her body
carved from the gloom, paler than the surrounding darkness, and smoother? Yes!; it was she. He almost called out
after her, and the n thought better of it. Instead he w ent in silent p ursuit, content to p lay her ga me for as long as it
pleased her. Crossing the room, he stepped through another door which let on to a further tunnel. The air here was
mu ch warmer than anywhere else in the building, clam my and ingratiating as it pressed itse lf upo n him. A mo me nt's
anxiety caught his throat: that he was neglec ting every article o f an auto crat's faith, putting his head so w illingly into
this warm noose. It cou ld so easily be a set-up: the girl, the cha se. Aro und the next corner the breasts and the b eauty
might have go ne, and there would be a knife at his heart. And yet he knew this wasn't so; kn ew that the footfall
ahead was a woman's, light and lithe; that the swelter that bro ught new tides o f sweat from him could nurture only
softness and passivity here. No knife could prosper in such heat: its edge would soften, its ambition go neglected. He
was safe.
Ahead, the footstep s had halted. He halted to o. T here w as light from somewhere, though its source wa s not ap parent.
He licked his lips, tasting salt, then advanced. Beneath his fingers the tiles were glossed with water; und er his heels,
they were slick. Anticipation mounted in him with every step.
Now the light was brightening. It was not day. Sunlight had no route into this sanctum; this was more like moonlight
- soft-edged, evasive - though that too must be exiled here, he thought. Whatever its origins, by it he finally set eyes
on the girl; or rather, on a girl, for it was not the same he had seen two days previous. Naked she was, young she
was; but in all other respects different. He caught a glance from her before she fled from him down the corridor, and
turned a corner. P uzzlement now lent piqu ancy to the chase: not o ne but two girls, occup ying this secret plac e; why?
He looked behind him, to be certain his escape route lay open should he wish to retreat, but his memory, befuddled
by the scented air, refused a clear picture of the way he'd come. A twinge of concern checked his exhilaration, but he
refused to succumb to it, and pressed on, following the girl to the end of the corridor and turning left after her. The
passageway ran for a short way before making another left; the girl even now disappearing around that corner.
Dimly aware that these gyrations were becoming tighter as he turned upon himself and upon himself again, he went
where she led, panting now with the breath-quenching air and the insistence of the chase.
Suddenly, as he turned one final corner, the heat became smotheringly close, and the passageway delivered him out
into a small, dimly-lit chamber. He unbuttoned the top of his shirt; the veins on the back of his hands stood out like
cord; he was aware of how his heart and lungs were labouring. But, he was relieved to see, the chase finished here.
The object of his pursuit was standing with her back to him across the chamber, and at the sight of her smooth back
and exquisite buttocks his claustrophobia evaporated.
"G irl...," he panted . "You led me quite a chase."
She seem ed not to hear him, or, more likely, was extending the gam e to its limits out of waywardness.
He started across the slippery tiles towards her.
"I'm talking to you ."
As he came within half a dozen feet of her, she turned. It was not the girl he had just pursued through the corridor,
nor indeed the one he had seen two days previous. This creature was another altogether. His gaze rested on her
unfamiliar face a few seconds only, however, before sliding giddily down to meet the child she held in her arms. It
was suc kling like any new-born babe, pulling at her young breast with no little hunger. B ut in his four and a half
decades of life Garvey's eyes bad never seen a creature its like. Nausea rose in him. To see the girl giving suck was
surprise eno ugh, but to such a thing, such an o utcast of any tribe, human or animal, was almost mo re than his
stomach could stand. Hell itself had offspring more embraceable.
"What in Christ's name
The girl stared at Garvey's alarm, and a wave of laughter broke over her face. He shook his head. The child in her
arms uncurled a suckered limb and clamped it to its comforter's bosom so as to get better purchase. The gesture
lashed Garvey's disgust into rage. Igno ring the girl's protests he snatched the abomination fro m her arms, holding it

long enough to feel the glistening sac of its body squirm in his grasp, then flung it as hard as he could against the far
wall of the chamber. As it struck the tiles it cried out, its complaint ending almost as soon as it began, only to be
taken~ up instantly by the m other. She ran acro ss the room to where the child lay, its apparently boneless bo dy split
open by the impact. One of its limbs, of which it possessed at least half a dozen, attempted to reach up to touch her
sobbing face. She gathered the thing up into her arms; threads of shiny fluid ran across her belly and into her groin.
Out beyond the chamber something gave voice. Garvey had no doubt of its cue; it was answering the death-cry of
the child, and the rising wail of its mother - but this sound was more distressing than either. Garvey's imagination
was an impoverished faculty. Beyond his dreams of wealth and women lay a wasteland. Yet now, at the sound of
that voice, the wasteland bloomed, and gave forth horrors he'd believed himself incapable of conceiving. Not
portraits of monsters, which, at the best, could be no more than assemb lies of exp erienced pheno mena. W hat his
mind created was more feeling than sight; belonged to his marrow not to his mind. All certainty trembled masculinity, power; the twin imperatives of dread and reason - all turned their collars up and denied knowledge of
him. He shook, afraid as only dreams made him afraid, while the cry went on and on, then he turned his back on the
chamber, and ran, the light throwing his shadow in front of him down the dim corridor.
His sense of direction had deserted him. At the first intersection, and then at the second, he made an error. A few
yards o n he realized his mistake and tried to double back, but merely exac erbated the confusion. T he co rridors all
looked alike: the same tiles, the same half-light, each fresh corner he turned either led him into a chamber he had not
passe d through or com plete cul-de-sacs. His panic spiralled . The wailing had now ceased ; he was alone with his
rasping breath and half-spoken cu rses. Coloq houn was responsible for this torment, and Garvey swo re he would
have its purpose beaten out of the man even if he had to break every bone in Coloqhoun's body personally. He clung
to thoughts of that beating as he ran on; it was his only comfort. Indeed so preocc upied did he becom e with thought
of the agonies he'd make Coloqhoun suffer he failed to realize that he had traced his way round in a circle and was
running back towards the light until his sliding heels delivered him into a familiar chamber. The child lay on the
floor, dead and discarded. Its mother was nowhere to be seen.
Garvey halted, and too k stock of his situation. If he went back the way he'd come the route w ould only co nfouna him
again; if he went ahead, through the chamber and towards the light, he might cut the Gordian knot and be delivered
back to his starting point. The swift wit of the solution pleased him. Cautiously, he crossed the chamber to the door
on the other side and peered through. Another short corridor presented itself, and beyond that a door that let on to an
ope n space. T he po ol! Surely the pool!
He threw caution to the wind, and moved out of the chamber and along the passage.
W ith every step he to ok, the heat inten sified. H is head thump ed with it. He p ressed on to the end of the passage way,
and out into the arena beyond.
The large pool had not been drained, unlike the smaller. Rather, it was full almost to brimming - not with clear
water, but with a scummy broth that steamed even in the heat of the interior. This was the source of the light. The
water in the poo l gave off a phosphoresc ence that tinged eve rything - the tiles, the diving board, the changing ro oms,
(himself, no doubt) with the same fulvous wash.
He scanned the scene in front of him. There was no sign of the women. His route to the exit lay unchallenged; nor
could he see sign of padlock or chains on the double-doors. He began towards them. His heel slid on the tiles, and he
glance d do wn briefly to see that he had cro ssed a trail of fluid - difficult, in the bewitched light, to make out its
colour - that either ended at the water's edge, or began there.
He looked b ack towards the water, curiosity getting the better of him. The steam swirled; an eddy toyed with the
scum. And there! His eye caught sight of a dark, anonymous shape sliding beneath the skin of the water. He thought
of the creature he'd killed; of its formless body and the d angling loops of its limbs. Was this ano ther of that species?
The liquid brightness lapped against the poolside at his feet; continents of scum broke into archipelagoes. Of the
swimmer, there was no sign.
Irritated, he looked away from the water. He was no longer alone. Three girls had appeared from som ewhere, and
were moving down the edge of the pool towards him. One he recognized as the girl he had first seen here. She was
wearing a dress, unlike her sisters. One of her breasts was bared. She looked at him gravely, as she approached; by
her side she trailed a ro pe, deco rated along its length with stained ribbons tied in limp b ut extravagant bo ws.
At the arrival of these three grac es the fermenting waters o f the pool were stirred into a frenzy, as its occupants rose
to meet the women. Garvey could see three or four restless forms teasing - but not breaking - the surface. He was
caught between his instinct to take flight (the rope, though prettifled, was still a rope) and the desire to linger and see
what the pool contained. He glanced towards the door. He was within ten yards of it. A quick dash and he'd be out
into the cool air of the corridor. From there, Chandaman was within bailing distance.
The girls stoo d a few feet from him, and watched him. H e returned their looks. All the desires that had b rought him
here had taken hee l. He no longer wa nted to cup the breasts of these creatures, o r dab ble at the intersection of the ir

gleam ing thighs. T hese wome n were not what they seemed . Their quietness wasn't docility, bu t a drug-trance; their
nakedness wasn't sensuality, but a horrid indifference which offended him. Even their youth, and all it brought - the
softness of their skins, the gloss of their hair - even that was somehow corrupt. Whe n the girl in the dress reached out
and touched his sweating face, Garvey made a small cry of disgust, as if he'd been licked by a snake. She was not
fazed by his response, but stepp ed closer to him still, her eyes fixed on his, smelling not of perfume like his mistress,
but of fleshliness. Affronted as he was, he could not turn away. H e stood, meeting the slut's eyes, as she kissed his
cheek, and the beribboned rope was wrapp ed around his neck.
Jerry called Garvey's office at half-hourly intervals through the day. At first he was told that the man was out of the
office, and would be available later that afternoon. As the day wore on, however, the message changed. Garvey was
not going to be in the office at all that day, Jerry was informed. Mr. Garvey is feeling unwell, the secretary told him;
he has gone home to rest. Please call again tomorrow. Jerry left with her the message that he had secured the groundplan to the Pools and would be delighted to meet and discuss their plans at Mr. Garvey's convenience.
Carole called in the late afternoon.
"Shall we go out tonight?" she said. "Maybe a film?"
"What do you want to see?" he said.
"Oh, I hadn't really thought that far. We'll talk about it this evening, shall we?"
They end ed up going to a French movie, which seemed, as far as Jerry could grasp, completely lacking in plot; it
was simply a series of dialogues between characters, discussing their traumas and their aspirations, the former being
in direct proportion to the failure of the latter. It left him feeling torpid.
"Y ou didn't like it..."
"N ot much. All that brow -beating."
"And no shoo t-out."
"N o shoot-out."
She sm iled to herself.
"What's so funny?"
"N othing..."
"D on't say nothing."
She shrugged. CI was just smiling, that's all. Can't I smile?"
"Jesus. All this co nversa tion needs is sub-titles."
They walke d along O xford Street a little way.
"D o you want to eat?" he said, as they came to the head of P oland Street. " W e cou ld go to the R ed Fort."
"N o thanks. I hate e ating late."
"Fo r Christ's sake, let's not argue ab out a b lood y film."
"Who's arguing?"
"Y ou're so infuriating-"
"That's something we've got in common, anyhow," she returned. Her neck was flushed.
"Y ou said this mo rning -"
"What?"
"Abou t us not losing eac h other-"
"That was this morning," she said, eyes steely. And then, suddenly: "You don't give afuck, Jerry. Not about me, not
abo ut anybody."
She stared at him, almost defying him not to respond. When he failed to, she seemed curiously satisfied.
"Go odnight..." she said, and began to walk away from him. He watched her take five, six, seven steps from him, the
deepest part of him wanting to call after her, but a do zen irre levanc ies - pride, fatigue, inc onve nience - blocking his
doing so. What eventually uprooted him, and put her name on his lips, was the thought of an empty bed tonight; of
the sheets warm only where he lay, and chilly as Hell to left and right of him.
"Carole."
She d idn't turn; her step didn't even falter. He had to trot to catch up with he r, conscious that this scene was probab ly
entertaining the p assers-b y.
"Carole." He caught hold of her arm. Now she stopped. When he moved round to face her he was shocked to see that
she was crying. This discomfited him; he hated her tears only marginally less than his own.
"I surrender," he said, trying a smile. "The film was a masterpiece.
How's that?"
She refused to be soo thed by his antics; her face was swo llen with unhappiness.
"Do n't," he said. "Please don't. I'm not..." (very good at apologies, he wanted to say, but he was so bad at them he

couldn't even mana ge that m uch.)
"Never mind," she said softly. She wasn't angry, he saw; only miserable.
"Come back to the flat."
"I don't want to."
"I want you to," he re plied. That at least was sincerely meant. "I d on't like talking in the street."
He hailed a cab, and they made their way back to Kentish Town, keeping their silence. Half way up the stairs to the
doo r of the flat C arole said: "Foul perfum e."
There was a strong, acid ic smell lingering on the stairs.
"Someb ody's been up here," he said, suddenly anxious, and hurried on up the flight to the front door of his flat. It
was open; the lock had been unceremoniously forced, the wood of the door-jamb splinted. He cursed.
"W hat's wrong?" C arole asked , following him up the stairs.
"B reak in."
He stepped into the flat and switched on the light. The interior was ch aos. T he whole flat had been co mprehensively
trashed. Everywhere, petty acts of vandalism - pictures smashed, pillows de-gutted, furniture reduced to timber. He
stood in the middle of the turmoil and shook, while Carole went from room to roo m, finding the same thorough
destruction in each.
"T his is personal, Jerry."
He nodded.
"I'll call the police," she vo lunteered. "Yo u find out what's missing."
He did as he was told, white-faced. The blow of this invasion numbed him. As he walked listlessly through the flat
to survey the pandemo nium - turning bro ken item s over, pushing dra wers b ack into place - he found himself
imagining the intruders ab out their business, laughing as they worked throug h his clothes and keepsakes.
In the corner o f his bedroo m he found a heap o f his photograp hs.
They had urinated on them.
"T he po lice are on their way," C arole told him . "T hey said not to to uch an ything."
Too late," he murmured.
"What's missing?"
Nothing," he told her. All the valuables - the stereo and video equipment, his credit cards, his few items of jewellery
- were p resent.
Only then did he remember the ground-plan. He returned to the living-room and proceeded to root through the
wreckage, but he knew d amn well he wasn't going to find it.
"Garvey," he said.
"What about him?"
"H e came for the ground-plan of the Pools. Or sent someo ne."
"W hy?" Caro le replied, loo king at the chao s. "Y ou we re going to give it to him anyway."
Jerry shook his head . "You we re the o ne who warned me to stay clear -"
"I never expected something like this."
"T hat makes two of us."
The police came and went, offering faint apologies for the fact that they thought an arrest unlikely. "There's a lot of
vand alism around at the mo ment," the officer said. "T here's nobod y in dow nstairs..."
"N o. They're away."
"Last hope, I'm afraid. We're getting calls like this all the time. You're insured?"
"Y es."
"W ell, that's some thing."
Througho ut the interview Jerry kept silent on his suspicions, though he was repeatedly tempted to point the finger.
There was little purpose in accusing Garvey at this juncture. For one, Garvey would have alibis prepared; for
another, what would unsubstantiated accusations do but inflame the man's unreason further?
"What will you do?" Carole asked him, when the police picked up their shrugs and walked.
"I don't know. I can't even be certain it was Garvey. One minute he's all sweetness and light; the next this. How do I
deal with a mind like that?"
"You don't. You leave it well be," she replied. "Do you want to stay here, or go over to my place?"
"Stay," he said.
They made a perfunctory attempt to restore the status quo -righting the furniture that was not too crippled to stand,
and clearing up the broken glass. Then they turned the slashed mattress over, located two unmutilated cushions, and
went to bed.
She wanted to make love, but that reassurance, like so much of his life of late, was doomed to failure. There was no

making good b etween the sheets what had b een so badly soured out of them. His anger made him rough, and his
roughness in turn angered her. She frowned beneath him, her kisses unwilling and tight. Her reluctance only spumed
him on to fresh crassness.
"Sto p," she said, as he was abo ut to enter her. "I don't want this."
He d id; and badly. He pushed before she could further her objections.
"I said don't, Jerry."
He shut out her voice. He was half as heavy again as she.
"Sto p."
He clo sed his eyes. She told him again to stop, this time with real fury, but he just thrust harder - the way she'd ask
him to sometimes, when the heat was really on - beg him to, even. But now she only swore at him, and threatened,
and every word she said made him more intent not to be cheated of this, though he felt nothing at this groin but
fullness and discomfort, and the urge to be rid.
She began to fight, raking at his back with her nails, and pulling at his hair to unclamp his face from her neck. It
passed through his head as he laboured that she would hate him for this, and on that, at least, they would be of one
accord, but the thought was soon lost to sensation.
The po ison passed, he rolled off her.
"Bastard..." she said.
His back stung. When he got up from the bed he left blood on the sheets. Digging through the chaos in the living
room he located an unbroken b ottle of whisky. The glasses, however, were all smashed, and out of absurd
fastidiousness he didn't want to drink from the bottle. He squatted against the wall, his back chilled, feeling neither
wretched nor proud. The front doo r opene d, and was slammed . He waited, listening to Carole's feet on the stairs.
Then tears came, though these too he felt utterly detached from. F inally, the bout dispatch ed, he went thro ugh into
the kitche n, found a cup, and d rank himself senseless out of that.
Garvey's study was an impressive room; he'd had it fashioned after that of a tax lawyer he'd known, the walls lined
with books purchased by the yard, the colour of carpet and paintwork alike muted, as though by an accrual of cigarsmoke and learning. When he found sleep difficult, as he did now, he could retire to the study, sit on his leatherbacked chair behind a vast desk, and dream of legitimacy. Not tonight, how ever; tonight his thoughts were o therwise
preoccupied. Always, however much he might try to turn to another route, they went back to Leopold Road.
He remembe red little of what had hap pened at the Po ols. T hat in itself was distressing; he had alwa ys prided him self
upon the acuteness of his memory. Indeed his recall of faces seen and favours done had ID no small measure helped
him to his present power. Of the hundreds in his employ he boasted that there was not a door-keeper or a cleaner he
could not address by their Christian name.
But of the events at Leopold Road, barely thirty-six hours old, he had only the vaguest recollection; of the women
closing upon him, and the rope tightening around his neck; of their leading him along the lip of the pool to some
chamber the vileness of which had practically snatched his senses away. What had followed his arrival there moved
in his memory like those forms in the filth of the pool: obscure, but horribly distressing. There had been humiliation
and horrors, hadn't there? Beyond that, he remembered no thing.
He was not a man to kowtow to such ambiguities without argument, however. If there were mysteries to be
uncovered here, then he would do so, and take the consequence of revelation. His first offensive had been sending
Chandaman and F ryer to turn Co loqhoun's place ov er. If, as he suspected, this whole enterp rise was some elaborate
trap d evised by his enemies, then Coloq houn was invo lved in its setting. No mo re than a front m an, no doubt;
certainly not the m asterm ind. B ut Garvey wa s satisfied tha t the destruction of Co loqhoun's go ods and chattels wo uld
warn his masters of his intent to fight. It had born other fruit too. Chandaman had returned with the ground-plan of
the Pools; they were spread on G arvey's desk now. He had traced his route through the complex time and again,
hoping that his memory might be jogged. He had been disappointed.
Weary, he got up and went to the study window. The garden behind the house was vast, and severely schooled. He
could see little of the immaculate borders at the moment however; the starlight barely described the world outside.
All he could see was his own reflection in the polished pane.
As he focused on it, his outline seemed to waver, and he felt a loosening in his lower belly, as if something had
come unknotted there. He put his hand to his abdomen. It twitched, it trembled, and for an instant he was back in the
Pools, and naked, and something lumpen moved in front of his eyes. He almost yelled, but stopped himself by
turning away from the window and staring at the room; at the carpets and the books and the furniture; at sober, solid
reality. Ev en then the images refused to leave his head entirely. T he co ils of his innards we re still jittery.
It was several minutes before he could bring himself to look back at the reflection in the window. When at last he
did all trace of the vacillation had disappeared. He would co untenance no more nights like this, sleepless and

haunted. With the first light of dawn came the conviction that today was the day to break M r. Coloqhoun.
***
Jerry tried to call Carole at her office that morning. She was repeatedly unavailable. Eventually he simply gave up
trying, and turned his attentions to the Herculean task of restoring some order to the flat. He lacked the focus and the
energy to do a good job however. After a futile hour, in which he seemed not to have made more than a dent in the
problem, he gave up. The chaos accurately reflected his opinion of himself. Best perhaps that it be left to lie.
Just be fore no on, he received a c all.
"Mr. Coloqhoun? Mr. Gerard Coloqhoun?"
"T hat's right."
"M y name 's Fryer. I'm calling on b ehalf of Mr. Garvey -"
"Oh?"
W as this to glo at, or threaten further mischief?
"Mr. Garvey was expecting some proposals from you," Fryer said.
"Proposals?"
"He's very enthusiastic about the Leopold Road project, Mr. Coloqhoun. He feels there's substantial monies to be
mad e."
Jerry said nothing; this palaver confounded him.
"M r. Garvey wo uld like another meeting, as soon as possible."
"Yes?"
"At the Po ols. T here's a few architectural details he'd like to show his co lleagues."
"I see."
"Would you be available later on today?"
"Y es. Of course."
"Four-thirty?"
The conversatio n more or le ss ende d there, leaving Jerry mystified. There had b een no trace of em nity in Fryer's
manner; no hint, however subtle, of bad blood between the two parties. Perhaps, as the police had suggested, the
events of the previous night had been the work of anonymous vand als - the theft of the ground-plan a whim of those
respo nsible. H is depressed spirits rose. All was not lost.
He rang Carole again, buoyed up by this turn of events. This time did not take the repeated excuses of her
colleagues, but insisted on. speaking to her. Finally, she picked up the phone.
"I don't want to talk to you, Jerry. Just go to hell."
"Just hear m e out -"
She slammed the receiver down before he said another word. He rang back again, immediately. When she answered,
and heard his voice, she seem ed baffled that he was so eager to make am ends.
"W hy are yo u even trying?" she said . "Jesus Christ, what's the use ?" H e cou ld hear the tears in her thro at.
"I want you to understand how sick I feel. Let me m ake it right. Please let me make it right."
She d idn't reply to his app eal.
"D on't put the phone do wn. Please d on't. I know it was unforgivable. Jesus, I kno w..."
Still, she kept her silence.
"Just think about it, will you? Give me a chance to put things right. Will you do that?"
Very quietly, she said: " I don't see the use ."
"May I call you tomorrow?"
He heard her sigh.
"May I?"
"Y es. Yes."
The line went dead.
He set out for his meeting at Leop old R oad with a full three -quarters of an hour to spare, but half way to his
destina tion the rain cam e on, great spots of it which defied the b est efforts o f his windscreen wipers. The traffic
slowed; he crawled for half a mile, with only the brake-lights of the vehicle ahead visible through the deluge. The
minutes ticked by, and his anxiety mounted. By the time he edged his way out of the fouled-up traffic to find another
route, he was already late. There was nobody waiting on the steps of the Pools; but Garvey's powder-blue Rover was
parked a little way down the road . There wa s no sign of the chauffeur. Jerry found a p lace to park on the opp osite
side of the road, and crossed through the rain. It was a matter of fifty yards from the door of the car to that of the
Pools but by the time he reached the sp ot he was drenched and breathless. T he do or was ope n. Ga rvey had clearly

manipulated the lock and slipped out of the downpour. Jerry ducked inside.
Garvey was not in the vestibule, but somebody was. A man of Jerry's height, but with half the width again. He was
wearing leathe r glove s. His face, but for the ab sence of seam s, might ha ve be en of the same material.
"Coloqhoun?"
"Y es."
"M r. Garvey is waiting for you inside."
"Who are you?"
"Chand aman," the man replied . "Go right in."
There was a light at the far end of the corridor. Jerry pushed open the glass-paneled vestibule doors and walked
dow n towards it.
Behind him, he heard the front doo r snap closed , and the n the echoing tread of Garvey's lieutenant.
Garvey wa s talking with another man, sho rter than Chandaman, who was holding a sizeab le torch. W hen the pair
heard Jerry approach they looked his way; their conversation abruptly ceased. Garvey offered no welcoming
com ment or hand, but merely said: "A bout time."
"The rain..." Jerry began, then thought better of offering a self-evident explanation.
"Y ou'll catch your d eath," the man with the to rch said . Jerry immed iately reco gnized the dulcet tone s of:
"Fryer."
"The same," the man returned.
"Pleased to meet you."
They shook hands, an d as they did so Jerry caught sight of G arvey, who wa s staring at him as tho ugh in search o f a
second head. The man didn't say anything for what seemed like half a minute, but simply studied the growing
discomfort on Jerry's face.
"I'm no t a stupid man," Garvey said , eventually.
The statement, coming out of nowhere, begged response.
"I don't even believe you're the main m an in all of this," Garvey w ent on. "I'm prepared to be charitable."
"What's this about?"
"Charitable -" Garvey repeated, "-. because I think you're out of your depth. Isn't that tight?"
Jerry just frowned.
"I think that's tight," Fryer replied.
"I don't think you understand how much trouble you're in even now, do you?" Garvey said.
Jerry was suddenly uncomfortably aware of Chandam an stand ing behind him, and of his ow n utter vulnerab ility.
"But I don't think ignorance should ever be bliss," Garvey was saying. "I mean, even if you don't understand, that
doesn't make you exempt, does it?"
"I haven't a clue what you're talking about," Jerry protested mildly. Garvey's face, by the light of the torch, was
draw n and pale; he looked in need of a holiday.
"T his place," G arvey returned. "I'm talking ab out this place. T he wo men you put in here ... for my benefit. W hat's it
all about, Coloqhoun? That's all I want to know. What's it all about?"
Jerry shrugged lightly. Each word Garvey uttered m erely perplexed him more; b ut the ma n had alread y told him
ignorance would not be considered a legitimate ex cuse. P erhap s a que stion was the wisest reply.
"You saw women here?" he said.
W hores, more like," Garvey responded. His breath smelt of last week's cigar ash. "W ho are you working for,
Coloqhoun?"
"Fo r myself. T he de al I offered-"
"Fo rget you r fucking deal," Garvey said . "I'm not interested in deals."
"I see," Jerry replied. "Then I do n't see any point in this conversation." He took a half-step away from Garvey, but
the man's arm sho t out and caugh t hold o f his rain-sodde n coa t.
"I didn't tell you to go," Garvey said.
"I've got business
"Then it'll have to wait," the other replied, scarcely relaxing his grip. Jerry knew that if he tried to shrug off Garvey
and make a dash for the front door he'd be stopped by Chandaman before he made three paces; if, on the other hand,
he didn't try to escape "I don't much like your sort," Garvey said, removing his hand. "Smart brats with an eye to the main chance. Think
you're so damn clever, just because you've got a fancy accent and a silk tie. Let me tell you something -" He jabbed
his finger at Jerry's throat, "- I don't give a shit about you. I just want to know who you work for. Understand?"
"I already told you-"
"W ho do you work for?" G arvey insisted, punctuating each word with a fresh jab. "Or you're going to feel very

sick."
"Fo r Christ's sake - I'm not working for anybod y. And I don 't know anything ab out any wom en."
"Do n't make it worse than it already is," Fryer advised, with feigned concern.
"I'm telling the truth."
"I think the man wants to be hurt," Fryer said. Chandaman gave a joyless laugh. "Is that what you want?"
"Just name some nam es," G arvey sa id. "O r we're go ing to break yo ur legs." The threat, unequivocal as it was, d id
nothing for Jerry's clarity of mind. He could think of no way out of this but to continue to insist upon his innocence.
If he named some fictitious overlord the lie would be uncovered in moments, and the consequences could only be
worse for the attempted decep tion.
"Check my credentials," he pleaded. "You've got the resources. Dig around. I'm not a company man, Garvey; I never
have been ."
Garvey's eye left Jerry's face for a moment and move d to his shoulder. Jerry grasped the significance of the sign a
heartbeat too late to prepare himself for the blow to his kidneys from the man at his back. He pitched forward, but
before he could collide with Garvey, C hand aman had snatche d at his collar and was throwing him against the wall.
He d oubled up, the pain blinding him to all other thoughts. Vaguely, he heard Garve y asking him again who his boss
was. He sho ok his head. His skull was full of ball-bearings; they rattled between his ears.
"Jesus... Jesus..." he said, groping for some word of defence to keep another beating at bay, but he was hauled
upright before any presented itself. The torch-beam was turned on him. He was ashamed of the tears that were
rolling down his cheeks.
"N ames," said Garvey.
The ball-bearings rattled on.
"Again," said Garvey, and Chandaman was moving in to give his fists further exercise. Garvey called him off as
Jerry came close to passing out. The leather face withdrew.
"Stand up when I'm talking to you," Garvey said.
Jerry attempted to oblige, but his body was less than willing to comply. It trembled, it felt fit to die.
"Stand up," Fryer reiterated, moving b etween Jerry and his tormento r to prod the point hom e. Now , in close
proximity, Jerry smelt that acidic scent Carole had caught on the stairs: it was Fryer's cologne.
"Stand up!" the man insisted.
Jerry raised a feeble hand to shield his face from the blinding beam. He could not see any of the trio's faces, but he
was dimly aware that Fryer was blocking Chandaman's access to him. To Jerry's right, Garvey struck a match, and
app lied the flame to a cigar. A mo ment presented itself: Garvey occ upied , the thug stym ied. Jerry took it.
Ducking down beneath the torch-beam he broke from his place against the wall, contriving to knock the torch from
Fryer's hand as he did so. T he light-source clattered across the tiles and went out.
In the sudden darkness, Jerry made a stumbling bid for freedom. Behind him, he heard Garvey curse; heard
Chandama n and Fryer collide as they scrabbled for the fallen torch. He began to edge his way along the wall to the
end of the co rridor. There wa s evide ntly no safe route past his to rmentors to the front d oor; his only ho pe lay in
losing himself in the networks of corridors that lay ahead.
He reached a c orner, and mad e a right, vaguely remembe ring that this led him off the main thoroughfares and into
the service corridors. Th e bea ting that he'd taken, tho ugh interrupted before it co uld incapacitate, had rendered him
breathless and bruised. He felt every step he took as a sharp pain in his lower abdomen and back. When he slipped
on the slimy tiles, the impact almost mad e him cry out.
At his back, Garvey was shouting again. The torch had been located. Its light bounced down the labyrinth to find
him. Jerry hurried on, glad of the murky illumination, but not of its source. They would follow, and quickly. If, as
Carole had said, the place was a simple spiral, the corridors describing a relentless loop with no way out of the
configuration, he was lost. But he was committed. Head giddied by the mounting heat, he moved on, praying to find
a fire-exit that would give him passage out of this trap.
"H e went this way," F ryer said . "He must have d one."
Garvey nodde d; it was indeed the likeliest route for Coloqho un to have taken. Away from the light and into the
labyrinth.
"S hall we go after him?" C hand am an said. T he ma n was fairly salivating to finish the beating he'd started . "He can't
have got far."
"No," said Garvey. Nothing, not even the promise of the knighthood, would have induced him to follow.
Fryer had already adva nced d own the passageway a few yard s, shining the torch-beam on the glistening walls.
"It's warm," he said.
Garvey knew all too well how warm it was. Such heat wasn't natural, not for England. This was a temperate isle; that
was why he had never set foot off it. The sweltering heat of other continents bred grotesqueries he wanted no sight

of.
"What do we do?" Chandaman demanded. "Wait for him to come out?"
Garvey pond ered this. The smell from the corrid or was beginning to distress him. His innard s were churning, his
skin was crawling. Instinctively, he put his hand to his groin. His manhood had shrunk in trepidation.
"N o," he said suddenly.
"No?"
W e're not waiting."
"H e can't stay in there fore ver."
"I said no!" He hadn't anticipated how profoundly the sweat of the place would upset him. Irritating as it was to let
Coloqhoun slip away like this, he kne w that if he stayed he re much longer he risked losing his self-control.
"Y ou two can wait for him at his flat," he told C hand aman. "H e'll have to come home soo ner or later."
"D amn shame," Fryer mu ttered as he emerged from the p assage way. "I like a cha se."
Perhaps they weren't following. It was several minutes now since Jerry had heard the voices behind him. His heart
had stopp ed its furio us pum ping. N ow, with the adrenalin no lon ger giving speed to his heels, and distracting his
muscles from their bru ising, his pa ce slow ed to a crawl. His body p rotested at even that.
W hen the agonies of taking another step became too much he slid down the wall and sat slumped across the
passageway. His rain-drenched clothes clung to his body and about his throat; he felt both chilled and suffocated by
them. He pulled at the knot of his tie, and then unbuttoned his waistcoat and his shirt. The air in the labyrinth was
warm on his skin. Its touch was welcome.
He closed his eyes and made a studied attempt to mesmerise himself out of this pain. What was feeling but a trick of
the nerve-endings?; there were techniques for dislocating the mind from the body, and leaving agonies behind. But
no soon er had his lids closed than he heard muted sounds som ewhere nearby. Foo tstep s; the lull o f voices. It wasn't
Garvey and his associates: the voices were female. Jerry raised his leaden head and opened his eyes. Either he had
become used to the darkness in his few moments of meditation or else a light had crept into the passageway; it was
surely the latter.
He got to his feet. His jacket was dead weight, and he sloughed it off, leaving it to lie where he'd been squatting.
Then he started in the dire ction o f the light. The hea t seemed to have risen co nsiderably in the last few m inutes: it
gave him mild hallucinations. The walls seemed to have forsaken verticality, the air to have traded transparency for a
shimmering aurora.
He turned a corner. The light brightened. Another corner, and he was delivered into a small tiled chamber, the heat
of which took his breath away. He gasped like a stranded fish, and peered across the chamber - the air thickening
with every pulse-beat - at the door on the far side. The yellowish light through it was brighter still, but he could not
summon the will to follow it a yard further; the heat here had defeated him. Sensing that he was within an ace of
unconsciousness, he put his hand out to support himself, but his palm slid on the slick tiles, and he fell, landing on
his side. He could not prevent a shout spilling from him.
Gro aning his misery, b e tucked his legs up clo se to his b ody, and lay where he'd fallen. If G arvey had he ard his yell,
and sent his lieutenants in pursuit, then so be it. He was past caring.
The sound of movement reached him from across the chamber. Raising his head an inch from the floor he opened
his eyes to a slit. A naked girl had ap peared in the doorwa y opp osite, or so his reeling senses informed him. H er skin
shone as if oiled; here and there, on her breasts and thighs, were smudges of what might have been old blood. Not
her blood , howe ver. T here w as no woun d to sp oil her gleaming bo dy.
The girl had begun to laugh at him, a light, easy laugh that m ade him feel foolish. Its m usicality entranced him
however, and he made an effort to get a better look at her. She had started to move across the chamber towards him,
still laughing; and now he saw that there we re othe rs behind her. These we re the wome n Ga rvey had babbled about;
this the trap he had accused Jerry of setting.
"W ho are you?" he murmured as the girl approached him. Her laughter faltered when she looked dow n at his paincontorted features.
He attempted to sit upright, but his arms were numb, and he slid back to the tiles again. The woman had not
answered his inquiry, nor did she make any attempt to help him. She simply stared down at him as a pedestrian
might at a drunk in the gutter, her face unreadab le. Looking up at her, Jerry felt his tenuous grip on co nsciousness
slipping. The heat, his pain, and now this sudden eruption of beauty was too much for him. The distant women were
dispersing into darkness, the entire chamber folding up like a magician's box until the sublime creature in front of
him claimed his attention utterly. And no w, at her silent insistence, his mind's eye seemed to be plucked from his
head, and suddenly he was speeding over her skin, her flesh a landscape, each pore a pit, each hair a pylon. He was
hers, utterly. She drowned him in her eyes, and flayed him with her lashes; she rolled him across her abdomen, and

down the soft channel of her spine. She took him between her buttocks, and then up into her heat, and out again just
as he thought he must burn alive. The velocity exhilarated him. He was aware that his body, somewhere below, was
hyper-ventilating in its terror; but his imagination - careless of breath - went willingly where she sent him, looping
like a bird, until he was thro wn, ragged and d izzy, back into the cup of his skull. B efore he could ap ply the fragile
tool o f reason to the p heno mena he ha d just experienced, his eyes fluttered closed and he passed o ut.
The bo dy does not need the mind. It has procedures aplenty - lungs to be filled and emptied, blood to be pump ed and
food profited from - none of which require the authority of thought. Only when one or more of these procedures
falters does the mind become aware of the intricacy of the mechanism it inhabits. Coloqhoun's faint lasted only a few
minutes; but when he came to he was aware o f his body as he had seldom been before: as a trap. Its fragility was a
trap; its shape, its size, its very gender was a trap . And there was no flying out of it; he was sha ckled to, or in, this
wretchedn ess.
These tho ughts ca me and we nt. In between them the re were brief sights throu gh which he fell gid dily, and still
briefer mom ents in which he glimpsed the world outside himse lf.
The wom en had picked him up. His head lolled; his hair dragged on the floor. I am a trophy, he thought in a more
coherent instant, then the darkness came again. And again he struggled to the surface, and now they were carrying
him along the edge of the large pool. His nostrils were filled with contradictory scents, both delectable and foetid.
From the corner of his lazy eye he could see water so bright it seemed to burn as it lapped the shores of the pool: and
something else too - shadows m oving in the brightness.
They mean to drow n me, he thought. And then: I'm already drowning. He imagined water filling his mouth:
imagined the forms he had glimpsed in the pool invading his throat and slipping into his belly. H e struggled to vomit
them back up, his body convulsing.
A hand was laid on his face. The palm was blissfully cool. "Hush," somebody murmured to him, and at the words
his delusions melted away. He felt himself coaxed out of his terrors and into con sciousness.
The hand had evapo rated from his b row. He loo ked around the gloo my room for his saviour, but his eyes didn't
travel far. On the other side of this chamber - which looked to have been a com munal show er-room - several pipes,
set high in the wall, delivered solid arcs of water onto the tiles, where gutters channelled it away. A fine spray, and
the gushing of the fountains, filled the air. Jerry sat up. T here w as mo vement behind the cascading veil of water: a
shape too vast by far to be huma n. He peered thro ugh the drizzle to try and make sense o f the folds of flesh. W as it
an anim al? T here w as a pungent smell in here that had so mething of the m enagerie ab out it.
Moving with considerable caution so as not to aro use the beast's attention, Jerry attempted to stand up. H is legs,
however, were not the equal of his intention. All he could do was crawl a little way across the room on his hands and
knees, and p eer - one bea st at another - through the veil.
He sensed that he was sensed; that the dark, recumbent creature had turned its eyes in his direction. Beneath its gaze,
he felt his skin creep with goo seflesh, but he co uldn't take his eyes off it. And then, as he sq uinted to scrutinize it
better, a spark of phosphorescence bega n in its substance, and spread - fluttering waves of jaundiced light up and
across its tremendous form, revealing itself to Coloqhoun. Not it; she. He knew indisputably that this creature was
female, though it resembled no species or genus he knew of. As the ripples of luminescence moved through the
creature's physique, it revealed with every fresh pulsation some new and phenomenal configuration. Watching her,
Jerry thought of something slow and molten - glass, perhaps; or stone - its flesh extruded into elaborate forms and
recalled again into the furnace to be remade. She had neither head nor limbs recognizable as such, but her contours
were ripe with clusters of bright bubbles that might have been eyes, and she threw out here and there iridescent
ribbons - slow, pastel flames - that seemed mo mentarily to ignite the very air.
Now the body issued a series of soft noises: scuttlings and sighs. He wondered if he was being addressed, and if so,
how he was expected to respond. Hearing footballs behind him, be glanced round at one of the women for guidance.
"Don't be afraid," she said.
"I'm not," he replied. It was the truth. The prodigy in front of him was electrifying, but woke no fear in him.
"What is she?" he asked.
The wom an stood close to him. Her skin, bathed by the shimmering light off the creature, was golden. Despite the
circumstances - or perhaps because of them - he felt a tremor of desire.
"She is the M ado nna. T he V irgin M other."
Mother? Jerry mouthed, swivelling his head back to look at the creature again. The waves of phosphorescence had
ceased to break across her body. Now the light pulsed in one part of her anatomy only, and at this region, in rhythm
with the pulse, the Madonna's substance was swelling and splitting. Behind him he heard further footsteps; and now
whispers echoed about the chamber, and chiming laughter, and applause.
The Madonna was giving birth. The swollen flesh was opening; liquid light gushing; the smell of smoke and blood

filled the shower-room. A girl gave a cry, as if in symp athy with the Mado nna. T he ap plause mo unted, and sudde nly
the slit spasmed and delivered the child - something between a squid and a shorn lamb - onto the tiles. The water
from the pipes slapped it into con sciousness immed iately, and it threw back its head to look about it; its single eye
vast and perfectly lucid. It squirmed on the tiles for a few moments before the girl at Jerry's side stepped forward
into the veil of water and picked it up. Its to othless m outh so ught out her breast immed iately. The girl delivered it to
her tit.
"N ot hum an..." Jerry mu rmured. H e had not prepared himself for a child so strange, and yet so unequivoca lly
intelligent. "Are all... all the children like that?"
The surrogate mother gazed down at the sac of life in her arms. "No one is like another," she replied. "We feed them.
Som e die. O thers live, and go their ways."
"Where, for God's sake?"
"T o the water. T o the sea. Into d ream s."
She cooed to it. A fluted limb, in which light ran as it had in its parent, paddled the air with pleasure.
"And the father?"
"She needs no husba nd," the rep ly came . "She cou ld make child ren from a shower of rain if she so de sired."
Jerry looked back at the Madonna. All but the last vestige of light bad been extinguished in her. The vast body threw
out a tendril of saffron flam e, which caugh t the cascade of water, and threw d ancing patterns on the wall. Then it
was still. When Jerry looked back for the mother and child, they had gone. Indeed all the women had gone but one.
It was the girl who had first appeared to him. The smile she'd worn was on her face again as she sat across the room
from him, her legs splayed. He gazed at the place between them, and then back at her face.
"What are you afraid of?" she asked.
"I'm no t afraid."
"Then why don't you come to me?"
He stood up, and cro ssed the chamber to where she sat. Behind him, the water still slapped and ran on the tiles, and
behind the fountains the M ado nna m urmured in her flesh. H e was not intimid ated b y her presence. T he likes o f him
was surely beneath the notice of such a creature. If she saw him at all she doubtless thought him ridiculous. Jesus! he
was ridiculous even to himself. He had neither hope nor dignity left to lose.
Tomorrow, all this would be a dream: the water, the children, the beauty who even now stood up to embrace him.
Tom orrow he would think he had died for a day, and visited a showerhouse for angels. For now, he would make
what he could of the oppo rtunity.
After they had made love, he and the smiling girl, when he tried to recall the specifics of the act, he could not be
certain that he had performed at all. Only the vaguest memories remained to him, and they were not of her kisses, or
of how they coupled, but of a dribble of milk from her breast and the way she murmured, "Never... never... as they
had entwined. W hen they were d one, she was indifferent. There we re no more words, no more smiles. She just left
him alo ne in the drizzle of the chamber. H e butto ned up his so iled trousers, an d left the M ado nna to her fecu ndity.
A short corridor led out of the shower-room and into the large pool. It was, as he bad vaguely registered when they
had brought him into the presence of the Madonna, brimming. Her children played in the radiant water, their forms
multitudinous. The women were nowhere to be seen, but the door to the outer corridor stood open. He walked
through it, and had taken no more than half a dozen steps before it slid closed behind him.
Now, all too late, Ezra Garvey knew that returning to the Pools (even for an act of intimidation, which he had
traditionally enjo yed) had been an erro r. It had re-opened a wou nd in him which he had hoped ne ar to he aling; and it
had brought memories of his second visit there, of the women and what. they had displayed to him (memories which
he had sough t to clarify until he began to grasp their true nature) c loser to the surfac e. They had drugged him
somehow, hadn't they?; and then, when he was weak and had lost all sense of propriety, they had exploited him for
their entertainment. T hey had suckled him like a child, and ma de him their plaything. T he me mories of that m erely
perplexed him; but there were others, too deep to be distinguished quite, which appalled. Of some inner chamber,
and of water falling in a curtain; of a darkness that was terrib le, and a lumine scence that was more terrib le still.
The time had come, he knew, to trample these dreams underfoot, and be done with such bafflement. He was a man
who forgot neither fav ours d one, nor favours o wed; a little before eleven he had two telephone conversations, to call
some of those favours in. W hateve r lived at Leopold Road P ools w ould prosper there no longer. Satisfied with his
night's manoeuvres, he went upstairs to bed.
He had d runk the best part of a bottle of schnapps since returning from the incident with Coloqhoun, chilled and
uneasy. Now the spirit in his system caught up with him. His limbs felt heavy, his head heavier still. He did not even
concern himself to undress, but lay down on his double bed for a few minutes to allow his senses to clear. W hen he
next woke, it was one-thirty a.m.

He sat up. H is belly was cavo rting again; indee d his whole body se emed to b e traum atized. He had seldom been ill
in his fifty-odd years: success had kept ailments at bay. But now he felt terrible. He had a headache which was near
to blinding - he stumbled from his bedroom down to the kitchen more by aid of touch than sight. There he poured
himself a glass of milk, sat down at the table, and put it to his lips. He did not drink however. His gaze had alighted
on the hand that held his glass. He stared at it through a fog of pain. It didn't seem to be his hand: it was too fine, too
smooth. H e put the glass do wn, trem bling, but it tipped over, the milk p ooling on the teak tab le-top and running o ff
on to the floor.
He got to his feet, the sound of the milk on the kitchen tiles awaking curious thoughts, and moved unsteadily through
to his study. He needed to be with somebo dy: anybody would do. He picked up his telephone boo k and tried to make
sense o f the scraw lings on each page , but the numb ers wo uld no t come clear. His p anic wa s growing. W as this
insanity? The delusion of his transformed hand, the unnatural sensations which were running through his body. He
reached to unbutton his shirt, and in doing so his hand brushed another delusion, more absurd than the first. Fingers
unwilling, he tore at the shirt, telling himself over and over that none of this was possible.
But the evidence was plain. He touched a body which was no longer his. There were still signs that the flesh and
bone belonged to him - an appendix scar on his lower abdomen, a birth-mark beneath his arm - but the substance of
his body had been teased (was being teased still, even as be watched) into shapes that shamed him. He clawed at the
forms that disfigured his torso, as if they might dissolve beneath his assault, but they merely bled.
In his time, Ezra Garvey had suffered much, almost all his sufferings self-inflicted. He had undergone periods of
imprisonm ent; come close to serious ph ysical wounding; had endured the decep tions of beautiful women. But those
torments were nothing be side the anguish he felt now. He was not himself! His body had been taken from his while
he slept and this changeling left in its place. The honor of it shattered his self-esteem, and left his sanity teetering.
Unable to hold back the tears, he began to pull at the belt of his trousers. Please God, he babbled, please God let me
be whole still. He could barely see for the tears. He wiped them away, and peered at his groin. Seeing what
deformities were in progress there, he roared until the windows rattled.
Garvey wa s not a m an for p revarication. Dee ds, he knew, were no t best served by debate. H e wasn't sure how this
treatise on transformation had been written into his system, and he didn't much care. All he could think of was how
many deaths of shame he would die if this vile condition ever saw the light of day. He returned into the kitchen,
selecting a large meat-knife from the drawer, then adjusted his clothing and left the house.
His tears had dried. They were wasted now, and he was not a wasteful man. He drove through the empty city down
to the river, and across Blackfriars Bridge. There he parked, and walked down to the water's edge. The Thames was
high and fast tonight, the tops of the waters were whipped white.
Only now, having come so far without examining his intentions too closely, did fear of extinction give him pause.
He was a wealthy and influential man; were there not other mutes out of this ordeal other than the one he had come
headlong to? Pill peddlars who could reverse the lunacy that had seized his cells; surgeons who might slice off the
offending parts and knit his lost self back together again? But how long would such solutions last? Sooner or later,
the process would begin again: he knew it. He was beyond help.
A gust of wind blew sp ume up off the water. It rained against his face, and the sensation finally broke the se al on his
forgetfulness. At last he remembered it all: the shower-room, the spouts from the severed pipes beating on the floor,
the heat, the women laughing and applauding. And finally, the thing that lived behind the water wall, a creature that
was worse than any nightmare of womanhoo d his grieving mind had dredged up. He had fucked there, in the
presence of that behemoth, and in the fury of the act - when he had momentarily forgotten himself - the bitches had
worked this rapture upon him. No use for regrets. What was done, was done. At least he had made provision for the
destruction of their lair. Now he would undo by self-surgery what they had contrived by magic, and so at least deny
them sight of their handiwork.
The wind was cold, but his blood was hot. It came gushingly as he slashed at his body. The Tham es received the
libation with enthusiasm. It lapped at his feet; it whipped itself into eddies. He had not finished the job, however,
when the loss of blood overcame him. No matter, he thought, as his knees buckled and he toppled into the water, no
one will know me now but fishes. The prayer he offered up as the river closed over him was that death not be a
woman.
Long befo re Garvey had woken in the night, and discovered his body in reb ellion, Je rry had left the Po ols, got into
his car, and attempte d to d rive ho me. H e had not be en the equal of that simp le task, ho wever. His eyes were bleary,
his sense of direction confuse d. After a near accid ent at an intersection he parked the car and began to walk back to
the flat. His memories of what had just happened to him were by no means clear, though the events were mere hours
old. His head was full of strange associations. He walked in the solid world, but half dreaming. It was the sight of
Chandaman and F ryer, waiting for him in the bedroom o f his flat that slapped him back into reality. He did not wait

for them to greet him, but turned and ran. They had emptied his stock of spirits as they lay in ambush, and were slow
to respond. He was down the stairs and gone from the house before they could give chase.
He walked to Carole's; she was not in. He didn't mind waiting. He sat on the front steps of her home for half an hour,
and when the tenant of the top floor flat arrived talked his way into the comparative warmth of the house itself and
kept vigil on the stairs. There he fell to dozing, and retraced his steps over the route he'd come, back to the
intersection where he'd abandoned the car. A crowd of people were passing the place. "Where are you going?" he
asked them. "To see the yatches," they replied. "What yatches are those?" he wanted to know, but they were already
drifting aw ay, chattering. H e walke d on a while. T he sky was dark, but the streets were illuminated nevertheless by a
wash of blue and shadowless light. Just as he was about to come within sight of the Pools, he heard a splashing
sound, and, turning a corner, discovered that the tide was coming in up Leopold Street. What sea was this?, he
enquired of the gulls overhead, for the salt tang in the air declared these waters as ocean, not river. Did it matter
what sea it was, they returned? ; weren't all seas one sea, finally? He stood and watched the wa velets creeping ac ross
the tarmac. Their advance, though gentle, overturned lamp-posts, and so swiftly eroded the foundations of the
buildings that they fell, silently, beneath the glacial tide. Soon the waves were around his feet. Fishes, tiny darts of
silver, moved in the water.
"Jerry?"
Carole was on the stairs, staring at him.
"What the hell's happened to you?"
"I could have drowned," he said.
He told her about the trap Garvey had set at Leopold Road, and how he'd been beaten up; then of the thugs" presence
at his own house. She offered cool sympathy. He said nothing about the chase through the spiral, or the women, or
the something that he'd seen in the shower-room. He couldn't have articulated it, even if he'd wanted to: every hour
that passed since he'd left the Po ol he was less certain of ha ving see n anything at all.
"D o you want to stay here?" she asked him when he's finished his acco unt.
"I thought you'd neve r ask."
"You'd better have a bath. Are you sure they didn't break any bones?"
"I think I'd feel it by no w if they had ."
No bro ken bones, perhaps; but he had not escaped unmarked. His torso was a patchwork of ripening bruises, and he
ached from head to foot. W hen, after half an hour of soaking, he got out of the bath and surveyed himself in the
mirror, his body seemed to be puffed up by the beating, the skin of his chest tender and tight. He was no t a pretty
sight.
Tomorrow, you must go to the police," Carole told him later as they lay side by side. "And have this bastard Garvey
arrested-"
"I suppose so..." he said.
She leaned over him. H is face wa s bland with fatigue. She kissed him lightly.
"I'd like to love you," she said. He did not look at her. "Why do you make it so difficult?"
"Do I?" he said, his eyelids drooping. She wanted to slide her hand beneath the bath-robe he was still wearing - she
had never quite understood his coyness, but it charmed her - and caress him. But there was a certain insularity in the
way he lay that signalled his wish to be left untouched , and she respected it.
I'll turn out the light," she said, but he was already asleep.
***
The tide was not kind to Ezra Garvey. It picked up his body and played it back and forth awhile, picking at it like a
replete diner toying with food he had no ap petite for. It carried the corpse a mile downstrea m, and then tired of its
burden. The current relegated it to the slower water near the banks, and there - abreast of Battersea - it became
snagged in a mooring rope. The tide went out; Garvey did not. As the water-level dropped he remained depending
from the rope, his bloodless bulk revealed inch by inch as the tide left him, and the dawn came looking. By eight
o"clock he had gained more than morning as an audience.
Jerry woke to the sound of the shower running in the adjacent bathroom. The bedroom curtains were still drawn
across. Only a fine dart of light found its way down to where he lay. He rolled over to bury his head in the pillow
where the light co uldn't disturb him, but his brain, once stirred , began to whirl. He had a d ifficult day ahead, in
which he would have to make some account of recent events to the police. There would be questions asked and some
of them might prove uncomfortable. The sooner he thought his story through, the more water-tight it would be. He

rolled over, and threw off the sheet.
His first thought as he looked do wn at himself was that he had not truly woken yet, but still had his face buried in the
pillow, and was merely dreaming this waking. Dreaming too the bo dy he inhabited -with its budding bre asts and its
soft belly. This was not his body; his was of the other sex.
He tried to shake himself awake, but there was nowhere to wake to. He was here. T his transformed anatomy was his
- its slit, its smoothness, its strange weigh t - all his. In the ho urs since midnight he ha d been unknitted an d rem ade in
another image.
From next door, the sound of the shower brought the Madonna back into his head. Brought the woman too, who had
co axed him into her and w hispered , as he frowned and thrust, " Never... never..." , telling him, though he couldn't
know it, that this coupling was his last as a man. They had conspired - woman and Madonna - to work this wonder
upon him, and wasn't it the finest failure of his life that he would not even hold on to his own sex; that maleness
itself, like wealth and influence, was promised, then snatched away again?
He got up off the be d, turning his hands ov er to ad mire the ir newfound fine ness, running his p alms across his
breasts. He was not afraid, nor was he jubilant. He accepted this fair accompli as a baby accepts its condition, having
no sense of what good or bad it might bring.
Perhaps there were more enchantments where this had come from. If so, he would go back to the Pools and find
them for himself; follow the spiral into its hot heart, and debate mysteries with the Madonna.
There we re miracles in the world ! Forces that co uld turn flesh inside out witho ut draw ing blo od; tha t could topp le
the tyranny of the real and make play in its rubble.
Next door, the shower continued to run. He went to the bathroom door, which was slightly ajar, and peered in.
Though the shower was on, Carole was not under it. She was sitting on the side of the bath, her hands pressed over
her face. She heard him at the door. Her body shook. She did not look up.
"I saw..." she said. Her voice was guttural; thick with barely-suppressed abhorrence. "...am I going mad?"
"N o."
"Then what's happening?"
"I don't know," he replied, simply. "Is it so terrible?"
"V ile," she said. "Revolting. I don't want to look at you. Y ou hear me? I don't want to see."
He didn't attempt to argue. She didn't want to know him, and that was her prerogative.
He slipped through into the bedroom, d ressed in his stale and dirty clothes, and headed back to the Pool.
He went unnoticed; or rather, if anybod y along his route noted a strangeness in their fellow pedestrian - a d isparity
between the clothes worn and the body that wore them - they looked the other way, unwilling to tackle such a
problem at such an hour, and sober.
W hen he arrived at Leo pold Road there were several men on the steps. T hey were talking, though he did n't know it,
of imm inent demo lition. Jerry lingered in the do orwa y of a sho p across the road from the Po ols until the trio
de pa rted , and then ma de his way to the front do or. He feared that they might have changed the loc k, but they hadn 't
He got in easily, and closed the door behind him.
He bad not brought a torch, but when he plunged into the labyrinth he trusted to his instinct, and it did not forsake
him. After a few minutes of exploration in the benighted corridors he stumbled across the jacket which he had
discarded the previous day; a few turns beyond he came into the chamber where the laughing girl had found him.
There was a hint of daylight here, from the pool beyond. A ll but the last vestiges of that luminescence that had first
led him here bad gone.
He hurried on through the chamber, his hopes sinking. The water still brimmed in the pool, but almost all its light
bad flickered out. He studied the broth: there was no movement in the depths. They had gone. The mothers the
children. And, no doubt, the first cause. lie Madonna.
He walked through to the shower-room. She had indeed left. Furthermore, the chamber had been destroyed, as if in a
fit of pique. The tiles had been torn from the walls; the pipes ripped from the plasterwork and melted in the
Madonna's heat. Here and there he saw splashes of blood.
Turning his back on the wreckage, he returned to the pool, wondering if it had been his invasion that bad frightened
them from this makeshift temple. W hatever the reason, the witches had gone, and he, their creature, was left to fend
for himself, deprived of their mysteries.
He wandered along the edge of the pool, despairing. The surface of the water was not quite calm: a circle of ripples
had awoken in it, and was growing by the heart-beat. He stared at the eddy as it gained momentum, flinging its arms
out across the pool. The water-level had suddenly begun to drop. The ed dy was rapidly becoming a whirlpool, the
water fo aming about it. Som e trap had b een o pened in the botto m of the poo l, and the waters w ere draining away.
W as this where the Mado nna had fled? He rushed back to the far end of the pool and examined the tiles. Yes! She

had left a trail of fluid behind her as she crept out of her shrine to the safety of the pool. And if this was where she
had gone, would they not all have followed?
W here the waters were draining to he had no way of knowing. To the sewers maybe, and then to the river, and
finally out to sea. To d eath by drowning; to the extinction of magic. Or by some secret channel down into the earth,
to some sanctuary safe from enquiry where rapture was not forbidden.
The water was rapidly becoming frenzied as suction called it away. The vortex whirled and foamed and spat. He
studied the shape it described. A spiral of course, elegant and inevitable. The waters were sinking fast now; the
splashing had mounted to a roar. Very soon it would all be go ne, the d oor to ano ther wo rld sealed up and lo st.
He had no cho ice: he leapt. T he circling und ertow snatche d at him immediately. H e barely had time to d raw breath
before he was sucked beneath the surface and dragged round and round, down and down. He felt himself buffetted
against the floor of the po ol, then somersaulted as he was p ulled inexorab ly closer to the exit. He op ened his eyes.
Even as he did so the current dra gged him to the brink , and o ver. T he stream too k him in its custody, and flung him
back and forth in its fury.
There was light ahead. How far it lay, he couldn't calculate, but what did it matter? If he drowned before he reached
that place, and end ed this jou rney dead , so what? Death was no m ore certain than the dream of ma sculinity he'd
lived these years. T erms of description fit o nly to be turned up and o ver and insid e out. T he earth was bright, wasn't
it, and probably full of stars. He opened his mouth and shouted into the whirlpool, as the light grew and grew, an
anthem in praise of paradox.

BABEL'S CHILDREN
W hy could Vanessa never resist the road that had no signpost marking it; the track that led to God alone knew
where? Her enthusiasm for following her nose had got her into trouble often enough in the past. A near-fatal night
spent lost in the Alps; that episode in Marrakech that had almost ended in rape; the adventure with the swordswallower's apprentice in the wilds of Lower Manhattan. And yet despite what bitter experience should have taught
her, when the choice lay between the marked route and the unmarked, she would always, without question, take the
latter.
Here, for instance. This road that meandered towards the coast of Kithnos: what could it possibly offer her but an
uneventful drive through the scrub land hereabouts - a chance encounter with a goat along the way - and a view from
the cliffs of the blue Aegean. She could enjoy such a view from her hotel at Merikha Bay, and scarcely get out of
bed to do so. B ut the other highw ays that led from this crossroad s were so clea rly marked: one to L outra, with its
ruined Venetian fort, the other to Driopis. She had visited neither village, and had heard that both were charming, but
the fact that they were so clea rly named seriously m arred their attraction for her. This other road , howe ver, though it
might - ind eed probab ly did - lead nowh ere, at lea st led to an unnamed nowh ere. T hat was no small
recommendation. T hus fuelled by sheer perversity, she set off along it.
The landscape to eithe r side o f the road (or, as it rapid ly became, track) wa s at best undistinguished . Even the go ats
she had anticipated were not in evidence here, but then the sparse vegetation looked less than nourishing. The island
was no paradise. U nlike Sa ntorini, with its picturesque volcano, or Mykono s - the Sodom of the C yclade s -with its
plush beaches and plusher hotels Kithnos could boast nothing that might draw the tourist. That, in short, was why
she was here: as far from the cro wd as she co uld co nspire to get. T his track, no doubt, would take her further still.
The cry she heard from the hillock s off to her left was no t meant to be ignored. It was a cry of naked alarm, and it
was perfectly audible above the grumb ling of her hired car. She bro ught the ancient vehicle to a halt, and turned off
the engine. The cry came again, but this time it was followed by a shot, and a space, then a second shot. W ithout
thinking, she opened the car doo r and stepped out onto the track. The air was fragran t with sand lilies and wild
thyme - scents which the petrol-stench inside the car had effectively masked. Even as she breathed the perfume she
heard a third shot, and this time she saw a figure - too far from where she stood to be recognizable, even if it had
been her husband - mounting the crown of one of the hillocks, only to disappear into a trough again. Three or four
beats later, and his pursuers appeared. Another shot was fired; but, she was relieved to see, into the air rather than at
the man. They were warning him to stop rather than aiming to kill. The details of the pursuers were as indistinct as
those of the escapee except that - an ominous touch -they were dressed from head to foot in billowing black garb.
She hesitated at the side of the car, not certain of whether she should get back in and drive away or go and find out
what this hide-and-seek was all about. The sound of guns was not particularly pleasant, but could she possibly turn

her back on such a mystery? The men in black had disappeared after their quarry, but she pinned her eyes to the spot
they had left, and started off towards it, keeping her head down as best she could.
Distances were deceptive in such unremarkable terrain; one sandy hillock looked much like the next. She picked her
way amongst the squirting cucumber for fully ten minutes before she became certain that she had missed the spot
from which pursued and pursuer had vanished - and by that time she was lost in a sea of grass-crested knolls. The
cries had long since ceased, the shots too. She was left only with the sound of gulls, and the rasping debate of
cicad as around her feet.
"Damn," she said. "Why do I do these things?"
She se lected the largest hillock in the vicinity an d trudged up its flank, her feet uncertain in the sandy soil, to see if
the vantage-point offered a view of the track she'd left, or e ven of the sea. If she cou ld locate the cliffs, she could
orient herself relative to the spot on which she'd left the car, and head off in that approximate direction, knowing that
sooner or later she'd be bound to reac h the track. But the hum moc k was to o puny; all that was revea led from its
summit was the extent of her isolation. In every direction, the same indistinguishable hills, raising their backs to the
afternoon sun. In desperation, she licked her finger and put it up to the wind, reaso ning that the breeze w ould mo st
likely be off the sea, and that she might use that slender information to base her mental cartography upon. The
breeze was negligib le, but it was the only guide she had, and she set off in the direction she hop ed the track lay.
After five increasingly breathless minutes of tramping up and dow n the hillocks, she scaled one of the slopes and
found herself looking not upon her car but at a cluster of white-washed buildings -dominated by a squat tower and
ringed like a garrison with a high wall - which her pre vious p erche s had given her no glimpse of. It imm ediately
occurred to her that the running man and his three over-attentive admirers had originated here, and that wisdom
probably counselled against approaching the place. But then without directions from somebody might she not
wander around forever in this wasteland and never find her way back to the car? Besides, the buildings looked
reassuringly unpretentious. There was even a hint of foliage peeping above the bright walls that suggested a
sequestered garden within, where she might at least get some shade. Changing direction, she headed towards the
entrance.
She arrived at the wrought-iron gates exhausted. Only when in sight of comfort would she concede the weight of her
weariness to herself: the trudge across the hillocks had reduced her thighs and shins to quivering incompetence.
One o f the large gates was ajar, and she stepped through. T he yard be yond was paved, and mo ttled with doves"
droppings: several of the culprits sat in a myrtle tree and cooed at her appearance. From the yard several covered
walkways led off into a maze of buildings. Her perversity unchastened by adventure, she followed the one that
looked least promising and it led her out of the sun and into a balmy passage, lined with plain benches, and out the
other side into a smaller enclosure. Here the sun fell upon one of the walls, in a niche of which stood a statue of the
Virgin Mary - her notorious child, fingers raised in blessing, perched upon her arm. And now, seeing the statue, the
pieces of this mystery fell into place: the secluded location, the silence, the plainness of the yard s and walkwa ys this was surely a religio us estab lishment.
She had been god less since early adolescence, and had seldom stepped over the threshold of a church in the
intervening twenty-five years. Now, at forty-one, she was past recall, and so felt doubly a trespasser here. But then
she wasn't seeking sanctuary, was she?; merely directions. She could ask them, and get gone.
As she advanced across the sunlit stone she had that curious sensation of self-consciousness which she associated
with being spied upon. It was a sensitivity her life with Ronald had sophisticated into a sixth sense. His ridiculous
jealousies, which had , only three mo nths previous, ende d their m arriage , had led him to spying strategies that would
not have shamed the agencies of Whitehall or Washington. Now she felt not one, but several pairs of eyes upon her.
Though she squinted up at the narrow windows that overlooked the courtyard, and seemed to see movem ent at one
of them, nob ody ma de any effort to call down to her, how ever. A mute order, perhaps, their vow of silence so
profound ly observed that she would have to com municate in sign-language? W ell, so be it.
Somewhere b ehind her, she heard running feet; several pairs, rushing towards her. And from down the walkway, the
sound of the iron gates clanging closed. For some reason her heart-beat tripped over itself, and alarmed her blood.
Startled, it leapt to her face. Her weakened legs began to quiver again.
She turned to face the owners of those urgent footsteps, and as she did so caught sight of the stone Virgin's head
moving a fraction. Its blue eyes had followed her across the yard, and now were unmistakably following her back.
She stood stock still; best not to run, she thought, with Our Lady at your back. It would have done no good to have
taken flight anyway, b ecause even now three nu ns were appearing from o ut of the shado w of the cloisters, their
vestments billowing. O nly their beards, and the gleam ing auto matic rifles they carried, frac tured the illusion of their
being Christ's brides. She might have laughed at this incongruity, but that they were pointing their weapons straight
at her he art.
There was no word of explanation offered ; but then in a place that harb oured armed men dre ssed as nuns a glimp se

of sweet reason was doubtless as rare as feathered frogs.
She was bundled out of the courtyard by the three holy sisters -who treated her as though she had just razed the
Vatican - and summarily searched her high and low. She took this invasion without more than a cursory objection.
Not for a moment did they take their rifle-sights off her, and in such circumstances obedience seemed best. Search
conclude d, one of them invited her to re-dress, and she was esc orted to a small room and locked in. A little while
later, one of the nuns brought her a bottle of palatable retsina, and, to complete this catalogue of incongruities, the
best deep-dish pizza she'd had this side of Chicago. Alice, lost in W onderland, could not have thought it curiouser.
There may have been an error," the man with the waxed moustache conceded after several hours of interrogation.
She w as relieved to discover he had no desire to pass as an Abb ess, despite the garb of the garrison. H is office - if
such it was - was sparsely furnished, its only remarkable artifact a human skull, its bottom jaw missing, which sat on
the desk and peered vacuously at her. He himself was better dressed; his bow-tie immaculately tied, his trousers
holding a lethal crease. Beneath his calculated English, Vanessa thought she sniffed the hint of an accent. French?
German? It was only when he produced some chocolate from his desk that she decided he was Swiss. His name, he
claimed, was Mr. Klein.
"An erro r?" she said . "You're damn right there's been an error!" "W e've loca ted your car. W e have also checked with
your hotel. So far, your sto ry has been ve rified."
"I'm not a liar," she said. She was well past the point of courtesy with Mr. Klein, despite his bribes with the
confectionery. By now it must be late at night, she guessed, though as she wore no watch and the bald little room,
which was in the bowels of one of the buildings, had no windows, it was difficult to be certain. Time had been
telescoped with only Mr. Klein, and his undernourished Number Two, to hold her wearied attention. "Well I'm glad
you're satisfied ," she sa id, "N ow will you let me get back to m y hotel? I'm tired."
Klein shoo k his head. "N o," he said. I'm afraid that won't be possible."
Vanessa stood up quickly, and the violence of her movement overturned the chair. Within a second of the sound the
doo r had opened and o ne of the bearded sisters appeared, p istol at the ready.
"It's all right, Stanislaus," Mr. Klein purred, "Mrs. Jape hasn't slit my throat."
Sister Stanislaus withdrew, and closed the door behind him. "W hy?" said Vanessa, her anger distracted by the
appearance of the guard.
"W hy what?" M r. Klein asked . The nuns."
Klein sighed heavily, an d put his hand on the coffee-pot that had b een b rought a full hour earlier, to see if it was still
warm. He poured himself half a cup before replying. "In my own opinion, much of this is redundant, Mrs. Jape, and
you have my personal assurance that I will see you released as rapidly as is humanly possible. In the meanwhile I
beg your indulgence. Think of it as a game . . ." His face soured slightly."... They like games." "Who do?"
Klein frowned. "Never mind," he said. "T he less yo u know the less we'll have to make you forget."
Vanessa gave the skull a beady eye. "None of this makes any sense," she said.
"Nor should it," Mr. Klein replied. He paused to sip his stale coffee. "You made a regrettable error in coming here,
Mrs. Jape. And indeed, we made an error letting you in. Normally, our defences are stricter than you found them.
But you caught us o ff-guard... and the next thing we kne w -"
"Look," said V anessa, "I don't know what's going on here. I don't want to know. All I want is to be allowed to go
back to my hotel and finish my holiday in peace." Judging by the expression on her interrogator's face, her appeal
was not proving persuasive. "Is that so much to ask?" she said. "I haven't done anything, I haven't seen anything.
What's the problem?"
Mr. Klein stood up.
"The p roblem," he repeated quietly to himself. "Now there's a question." He didn't attempt to answer, however.
Merely called: "Stanislaus?"
The door opened, and the nun was there.
"Return Mrs. Jape to her room, will you?"
"I shall protest to my E mba ssy!" V anessa said, her resentment flaring. "I have rights!"
"Please," said M r. Klein, looking pained. " Shouting will help none of us."
The nun to ok ho ld of V anessa 's arm. She felt the proxim ity of his pistol.
"Shall we go ?" he asked po litely.
"Do I have any choice?" she replied.
"N o."
The trick of good farce, she had once been informed by her brother-in-law, a sometime actor, was that it be played
with deadly seriousness. There should be no sly winks to the gallery, signalling the farceur's comic intention; no

business that was so outrageous it would undermine the reality of the piece. By these stringent standards she was
surrounded by a cast of experts: all willing - habits, wimples and spying Madonnas notwithstanding - to perform as
though this ridicu lous situation was in no way out o f the ord inary. T ry as she m ight, she could not call their bluff;
not break their po -faces, no t win a single sign of self-consciousne ss from them. C learly she lacked the req uisite skills
for this kind o f com ed y. T he soon er they realized their error and d isc harged her from the com pa ny the hap pier she'd
be.
She slept well, helped on her way by half the co ntents of a bottle of whisky that som e thoughtful person had left in
her little room when she returned to it. She had seldom drunk so m uch in such a short period o f time, and when - just
about dawn - she was woken by a light tapping on her door, her head felt swollen, and her tongue like a suede glove.
It took her a moment to orient herself, during which time the rapping was repeated, and the small window in the door
opened from the other side. An urgent face was pre ssed to it: that of an old man, with a fungal beard and wild eyes.
"Mrs. Jape," he hissed. "Mrs. Jape. May we have words?"
She crossed to the door and looked through the window. The old man's breath was two-parts stale ouzo to one of
fresh air. It kept her from pressing too close to the window, though he beckoned her.
"W ho are you? " Vanessa asked , not simp ly out of abstract curiosity, but because the features, sunburnt and leathery,
reminded her of somebod y.
The man gave her a fluttering look. "An admirer," he said. "Do I know you?"
He shook his head. "Y ou're much too young," he said. "But I know you. I watched you come in. I wanted to warn
you, but I didn't have time ."
"Are you a prisoner here too?"
"In a manner of speaking. Tell me ... did you see Floyd?"
"Who?"
"H e escaped . The day b efore yesterday."
"Oh," Vanessa said, beginning to thread these dropped pearls together. "Floyd was the man they were chasing?"
"Certainly. He slipped out, you see. They went after him - the clods - and left the gate open. The security is shocking
these days -" He sounded genuinely outraged by the situation." - Not that I'm not pleased you're here." There was
some desperation in his eyes, she thought; some sorrow he fought to keep submerged. "We heard shots," he said.
"They didn't get him, did they?"
"N ot that I saw," V anessa replied . "I went to loo k. But there wa s no sign -"
"Ha!" said the old man, brightening. "Maybe he did get away then."
It had already occurred to Vanessa that this conversation might be a trap; that the old man was her captor's dupe, and
this was just another way to squeeze information from her. But her instincts instructed otherwise. He looked at her
with such affection, and his face, which was that of a maestro clown, seemed incapable of forged feeling. For better
or wo rse, she tru sted him . She had little choice.
"Help me get out," she said. "I have to get out."
He looked crest-fallen. "So soon?" he said. "You only just arrived."
"I'm not a thief. I don't like being locked up."
He no dded . "Of course you do n't," he replied, silently admonishing himself for his selfishness. "I'm sorry. It's just
that a beautiful wo man - " He stopp ed him self, then began again, o n a fresh tack. "I never had much of a way with
word s . . ."
"Are you sure I don't know you fro m somewhere? " V anessa inquired. "Y our fac e is som ehow familiar."
"Really?" he said. "That's very nice. We all think we're forgotten here, you see."
"All?"
"W e were snatched away such a time ago. Many of us were only beginning our researches. That's why Floyd made a
run for it. He wanted to do a few months" dece nt work befo re the end. I feel the same som etimes." His melancholy
train halted, and he returned to her q uestion. "M y name is Ha rvey Go mm; Professor H arvey Go mm. T hough these
days I fo rget what I was p rofesso r of."
Gomm. It was a singular nam e, and it rang bells, but she co uld at present find no tune in the chimes.
"You don't remember, do you?" he said, looking straight into her eyes.
She wished she could lie, but that might alienate the fellow - the only voice of sanity she'd discovered here - more
than the truth; which was:
"No... I don't exactly remember. Maybe a clue?"
But be fore he cou ld offer her another piece of his mystery, he heard voices.
"Can't talk now, Mrs. Jape."
"Call me V anessa ."
"M ay I?" His face bloome d in the w armth of her b enificence. "V anessa ."

"You will help me?" she said.
"As best I m ay," he replied . "But if you see me in comp any -"
" - W e neve r met."
"Precisely. Au revoir." He closed the panel in the door, and she heard his footsteps vanish down the corridor. When
her custodian, an am iable thu g called Guillemot, arrived severa l minutes later bearing a tray of tea, she was all
smiles.
Her outburst of the previous day seem ed to have b orn so me fruit. T hat mo rning, after brea kfast, M r. Klein called in
briefly and told her that she wo uld be allowed out into the gro unds of the place (with Guillemo t in attendance), so
that she might enjoy the sun. She was further supplied with a new set of clothes - a little large for her, but a welcome
relief from the sweaty garments she had now worn for over twenty-four hours. This last concession to her comfort
was a curates" egg, however. Pleased as she was to be wearing clean underwear the fact that the clothes had been
supplied at all suggested that Mr. Klein was not anticipating a prompt release.
How long wo uld it be, she tried to calculate, before the rather obtuse manager of her tiny hotel realized that she
wasn't coming back; and in that event, what he would do? Perhaps he had already alerted the authorities; perhaps
they would find the abandoned car and trace her to this curious fortress. On this last point her hopes were dashed that
very morning, during her constitutional. The car was parked in the laurel-tree enclosure beside the gate, and to judge
by the copious blessings rained upon it by the doves had been there overnight. Her captors were not fools. She might
have to wait until somebody back in England became concerned, and attempted to trace her whereabouts, during
which time she might well die of boredom.
Others in the place had found diversions to keep them from insanity's door. As she and Guillemot wandered around
the grounds that morning she could distinctly hear voices - one of them Gomm's - from a nearby courtyard. They
were raised in excitement. "What's going on?"
"T hey're playing gam es," G uillemo t replied .
"Can we go and watch?" she asked ca sually.
"N o-"
"I like games."
"Do you?" he said. "We'll play then, eh?"
This wasn't the response she'd wanted, but pressing the point might have aroused suspicion.
"W hy not? " she said. W inning the man's trust could only be to her advantage.
"Poker?" he said.
"I've never played."
"I'll teach yo u," he replied . The thought clearly pleased him . In the ad jacent courtyard the players now sent up a din
of shouts. It sounded to be some kind of race, to judge by the mingled calls of encouragement, and the subsequent
deflation as the winning-post was achieved. Guillem ot caught her listening.
"Frogs," he said. "They're racing frogs."
"I wo ndered."
Guillemot looked at her almost fondly, and said, "Better not."
Despite Guillemot's advice, once her attention focussed on the sound of the games she could not drive the din from
her head. It continued through the afternoon, rising and falling. Sometimes laughter would erupt; as often, there
would arguments. They were like children, Gomm and his friends, the way they fought over such an inconsequential
pursuit as racing frogs. But in lieu of more nourishing diversions, could she blame them? W hen Gomm's face
appeared at the door later that evening, almost the first thing she said was: "I heard you this morning, in one of the
courtyards. And then this afternoo n, too. Y ou seemed to b e having a good d eal of fun."
"Oh, the games," Gomm replied. "It was a busy day. So much to be sorted out."
"D o you think you could persuade them to let me jo in you? I'm getting so bored in here."
"Poor Vanessa. I w ish I could help. But it's practically impossible. W e're so overwo rked at the mo ment, espec ially
with Floyd's escap e."
Overworked? , she thought, racing frogs? Fearing to offend, she didn't voice the doubt. "What's going on here?" she
said. "You're not criminals, are you?"
Gomm looked outraged. "Criminals?"
"I'm sorry . . ."
"No. I understand why you asked. I suppose it must strike you as odd . . . our being locked up here. But no, we're not
criminals.
"What then? What's the big secret?"
Gomm took a deep breath before replying. "If I tell you," he said, "will you help us to get out of here?"

"How?"
"Y our car. It's at the front."
"Y es, I saw it. . ."
"If we could get to it, would you drive us?"
"How many of you?"
"Four. There's me, there's Ireniya, there's Mottershead, and Go ldberg. Of course Floyd's probably out there
somewhere, but he'll just have to look after himself, won't he?"
"It's a small car," she warned.
"W e're small people," Go mm returned. "Y ou shrink with age, you know, like dried fruit. And we're old . W ith Floyd
we had three hundred and ninety-eight years between us. All that bitter experience," he said, "and not one of us
wise."
In the yard outside Vanessa's room shouting suddenly erupted. Gomm disappeared from the door, and reappeared
again briefly to murmur: "They found him. Oh my God: they found him." Then he fled.
Vanessa crossed to the windo w and peered thro ugh. She co uld no t see mu ch of the yard b elow, but what she co uld
see was full of frenzied activity, sisters hithering and thithering. At the centre of this commotion she could see a
small figure - the runaway Floyd, no doubt - struggling in the grip of two guards. H e looked to be much the worse
for his days and nights of living rough, his drooping features dirtied, his balding pate peeling from an excess of sun.
Vanessa heard the voice of Mr. Klein rise above the babble, and he stepped into the scene. He approached Floyd and
proceeded to berate him mercilessly. Vanessa could not catch more than one in every ten words, but the verbal
assault rapidly reduced the old m an to tears. She turned away from the wind ow, silently praying that Klein would
choke on his next piece of chocolate.
So far, her time here had brought a curious collection of experiences: one moment pleasant (Gomm 's smile, the
pizza, the sound of games played in a similar courtyard), the next - (the interrogation, the bullying she'd just
witnessed) unpalatable. And still she w as no nearer understand ing what the functio n of this prison was: why it on ly
had five inm ates (six, if she include d herself) and all so o ld -shrunk by age, Gom m had said. But after K lein's
humiliation of F loyd she was now certain that no secret, how ever p ressing, would keep her from aiding Gomm in his
bid for freedom.
The Professor did not come back that evening, which disappointed her. Perhaps Floyd's recapture had meant stricter
regulations about the place, she reasoned, though that principle scarcely applied to her. She, it seemed, was
practically forgotten. Though Guillemot brought her food and drink he did not stay to teach her poker as they had
arranged, nor was she escorted out to take the air. Left in the stuffy room without company, her mind undisturbed by
any ente rtainment but counting her to es, she ra pidly b ecam e listless and sleepy.
Indeed, she was dozing through the middle of the afternoon when something hit the wall outside the window. She
got up, and was crossing to see what the sound was when an object was hurled through the window. It landed with a
clunk on the floor. She went to snatch a glimpse of the sender, but he'd gone.
The tiny parcel was a key wrapp ed in a note. "Vanessa," it read, " Be ready. Yours, in saecula saeculo rum. H .G."
Latin was not her forte; she hoped the final words were an endearment, not an instruction. She tried the key in the
door of her cell. It worked. Clearly Gomm didn't intend her to use it now, however, but to wait for some signal. Be
ready, he'd written. Easier said than done, of course. It was so tempting, with the door op en and the passageway out
to the sun clear, to forget G omm and the others and make a break for it. But H.G . had doubtless taken som e risk
acquiring the key. She owed him her allegiance.
After that, there was no more dozing. Every time she heard a footstep in the cloisters, or a shout in the yard, she was
up and ready. But Go mm's call didn't come. T he aftern oon dragged on into evening. Guillemot appeared with
another pizza and a bottle of coca-cola for dinner, and before she knew it night had fallen and another day was gone.
Perhaps they would come by cover of darkness, she thought, but they didn't. The moon rose, its seas smirking, and
there was still no sign of H.G. or this promised exodus. She began to suspect the worst: that their plan had been
discovered, and they were all being punished for it. If so, would not Mr. Klein sooner or later root out her
involvement? Though her part had been m inimal, what sanctions might the chocolate-man take out against her?
Sometime after midnight she decided that waiting here for the axe to fall was not her style at all, and she would be
wise to d o as Floyd had done, and run for it.
She let herself out of the cell, and locked it behind her, then hurried along the cloisters, cleaving to the shadows as
best she could. There was no sign of human presence - but she remembered the watchful Virgin, who'd first spied on
her. Nothing was to be trusted here. By stealth and sheer good fortune she eventually found her way out into the yard
in which Floyd had faced Mr. Klein. There she paused, to work out which way the exit lay from here. But clouds had
mov ed ac ross the face of the mo on, and in da rkness her fitful sense of direction d eserted her co mpletely. Trusting to
the luck that had got her thus far unarrested, she chose one o f the exits from the yard, and slipp ed thro ugh it,

following her nose along a covered walkway which twisted and turned before leading out into yet another courtyard,
larger than the first. A light breeze teased the leaves of two entwined laure l-trees in the c entre o f the yard; nightinsects tuned up in the walls. Peaceable as it was, the square offered no promising route that she could see, and she
was ab out to go back the way she'd come when the mo on sho ok off its veils and lit the yard fro m wall to wall.
It was em pty, but for the laurel-trees, and the shado w of the laurel-tree s, but that shado w fell acro ss an elaborate
design which had been painted onto the pavement of the yard. She stared at it, too curious to retreat, though she
could make no sense of the thing at first; the pattern seemed to be just that: a pattern. She stalked it along one edge,
trying to fathom out its significance. Then it dawned on her that she was viewing the entire picture upside-down. She
mov ed to the othe r side o f the cou rtyard and the design came clear. It was a m ap of the world, rep roduced dow n to
the most insignificant isle. All the great cities were marked and the oceans and continents crisscrossed with hundreds
of fine lines that marked latitudes, longitudes and much else besides. Though m any of the symbols were
idiosyncratic, it was clear that the map was rife with political detail. Contested borders; territorial waters; exclusion
zones. M any of these had b een draw n and re-dra wn in chalk, as if in response to d aily intelligence. In som e regions,
where events were particularly fraught, the land-mass was all but obscure d by scribb lings.
Fascination came between her and her safety. She didn't hear the footsteps at the North Pole until their owner was
stepping out of hiding and into the moonlight. She was about to make a run for it, when she recognized Gomm.
"Don't move," he murmured across the world.
She did as she was instructed. Glancing around him like a besieged rabbit until he was certain the yard was deserted,
H.G. crossed to where Vanessa stood.
"W hat are you doing here?" he demanded of her.
"Y ou didn't com e," she accused him. "I tho ught you'd forgo tten me."
Things got difficult. They watch us all the time." "I couldn't go on waiting, Harvey. This is no place to take a
holiday."
"You're right, of course," he said, a picture of dejection. "It's hopeless. Hopeless. You should make your getaway on
your own. Forget about us. They'll never let us out. The truth's too terrible."
"What truth?"
He shook his head. "Forget about it. Forget we ever met."
Vanessa to ok ho ld of his sp indly arm . "I will not," she said. "I have to know what's hap pening here ."
Gomm shrugged. "Perhaps you should know. Perhaps the whole world should know." He took her hand, and they
retreated into the relative safety of the cloisters.
"W hat's the map for? " was her first question.
This is where we play - " he replied, staring at the turmoil of scrawlings on the courtyard floor. He sighed. "Of
course it wasn't always games. But systems decay, you know. It's an irrefutable condition common to both matter
and ideas. You start off with fine intentions and in two decades . . . two decades..." he repeated, as if the fact
app alled him afresh,". . . we're p laying with fro gs."
"You're not making much sense, Harvey," Vanessa said. "Are you being deliberately obtuse or is this senility?"
He prickled at the accusation, but it did the trick. Gaze still fixed on the map of the world, he delivered the next
words crisply as if he'd rehearsed this confession.
There was a day of sanity, back in 1962, in which it occurred to the potentates that they were on the verge of
destroying the world. Even to potentates the idea of an earth only fit for cockroaches was not particularly beguiling.
If annihilation was to be prevented, they decided, our better instincts had to prevail. The mighty gathered behind
locked doors at a symposium in Geneva. There had never been such a meeting of minds. The leaders of Politburos
and Parliaments, Congresses, Sena tes - the Lo rds of the earth - in one colossal deb ate. And it was d ecide d that in
future world affairs should be overseen by a special committee, made up of great and influential minds like my own
- men and wo men who w ere no t subject to the whims of political favour, who could offer some gu iding p rinciples to
keep the species from mass suicide. This committee was to be made up of peo ple in many areas of human endeavour
- the best of the best - an intellectual and moral elite, whose collective wisdom would bring a new golden age. That
was the theory anyway
Vanessa listened, without voicing the hundred questions his short speech had so far brought to mind. Gomm went
on.
" - and for a while, it worked. It really worked. There were only thirteen of us - to keep some consensus. A Russian,
a few of us Europeans - dear Yoniyoko, of course - a New Zealander, a couple of Americans ... we were a highpow ered bunch. Two N obe l prize w inners, m yself included -"
Now she remembered Gomm, or at least where she'd once seen that face. They had both been much younger. She a
schoolgirl, taught his theories by rote.
" - our brief was to encourage mu tual und erstand ing between the po wers-that-be, help shape com passio nate

economic structures and develop the cultural identity of emergent nations. All platitudes, of course, but they sounded
fine at the time. As it was, almost from the beg inning o ur concerns were territorial."
Territorial?"
Gomm made an expansive gesture, taking in the map in front of him. "Helping to divide the world up," he said.
"Regulating little wars so they didn't become b ig wars, keeping dictatorships from getting too full of themselves. W e
became the world's domestics, cleaning up wherever the dirt got too thick. It was a great responsibility, but we
shouldered it quite happily. It rather pleased us, at the beginning, to think that we thirteen were shaping the world,
and that nob ody b ut the highest eschelons of gov ernment knew that we even e xisted."
This, though t Vanessa, wa s the N apo leon S yndro me writ large. G omm was ind isputab ly insane: b ut what an hero ic
insanity! And it was essentially harmless. Why did they have to lock him up? He surely wasn't capable of doing
damage.
"It seems unfair," she said, 'that you're locked away in here -"
"W ell that's for our own security, of course," Gomm replied. "Imagine the chaos if some anarchist group found out
where we operated from, and did away with us. We run the world. It wasn't meant to be that way, but as I said,
systems decay. As time went by the potentates - knowing they had us to make critical decisions for them - concerned
themselves more and more with the pleasures of high office and less and less with thinking. Within five years we
were no lon ger ad visers, but surrogate overlords, juggling nations."
"What fun," Vanessa said.
"For a while, perhaps," Gomm replied. "But the glamour faded very quickly. And after a decade or so, the pressure
began to tell. Half of the committee are already dead. Golovatenko threw himself out of a window. Buchanan - the
New Zealander - had syphilis and didn't know it. Old age caught up with dear Yoniyoko, and B ernheimer and
Sourbutts. It'll catch up with all of us sooner or later, and Klein keeps promising to provide people to take over when
we've go ne, but they don't care. T hey do n't give a da mn! W e're functionaries, tha t's all." He was getting quite
agitated. "As long as we provide them with judgements, they're happy. Well. . ." his voice dropped to a whisper,
"we're giving it up."
Was this a moment of self-realization?, Vanessa wondered. Was the sane man in Gomm's head attempting to throw
off the fiction of world domination? If so, perhaps she could aid the p rocess.
"You want to get away?" she said.
Gomm nodd ed. "I'd like to see my home once more before I die. I've given up so much, Vanessa, for the committee,
and it almost drove me mad -" Ah, she thought, he knows. "Does it sound selfish if I say that my life seems too great
a sacrifice to make for global peace?" She smiled at his pretensions to po wer, but said nothing. "If it does, it does!
I'm unrep entant. I want out! I want -"
"Keep your voice down," she advised.
Gomm remembered himself, and nodded.
"I want a little freedom before I die. W e all do. And we thought you could help us, you see." He looked at her.
"What's wrong?" he said.
"Wrong?"
"Why are you looking at me like that?"
"Y ou're not well, Ha rvey. I don't think you're dangerous, but -"
"W ait a minute," G omm said. "W hat do you think I've been telling you? I go to all this trouble . . ."
"H arvey. It's a fine sto ry . . ."
"Story? W hat do you mean, story?" he said, petulantly. "Oh ... I see. "You d on't believe me, do you? T hat's it! I just
told yo u the gre atest secret in the world, and yo u don't believe me!"
"I'm no t saying you're lying -"
"Is that it?" You think I'm a lunatic!" Go mm exploded. His voice echoed around the rectangular wo rld. Almost
imme diately there were voices from severa l of the buildings, and fast upon those the thund er of feet.
"Now look what you've done," Gomm said.
"I've done?"
"W e're in trouble."
"Lo ok, H .G., this doesn't mean -"
To o late for retractions. Y ou stay w here yo u are - I'm go ing to make a run for it. D istract them ."
He wa s about to d epart when he turned back to her, caught hold of her ha nd, and p ut it to his lips.
"If I'm mad," he said, "you mad e me that way."
Then he was off, his short legs carrying him at a fair speed across the yard. He did not even reach the laurel-trees
however, before the guards arrived. They shouted for him to stop. When he failed to do so one of the men fired.
Bullets ploughed the ocean around G omm 's feet.

"All right," he yelled, co ming to halt and putting his hands in the air. "Mea culpa!"
The firing stopped . The guards parted as their commander stepped through.
"Oh, it's you, Sidney," H. G. said to the Captain. The man visibly flinched to be so addressed in front of inferior
ranks.
"What are you doing out at this time of night?" Sidney demanded.
"Star-gazing," Gomm replied.
"Yo u weren't alone," the Captain said. Vanessa's heart sank. There was no route back to her room without crossing
the open courtyard; and even now, with the alarm raised, Guillemot would proba bly be checking on her.
That's true," said Gomm . "I wasn't alone." Had she offended the old man so much he was now going to betray her?
"I saw the woman you brought in -"
"Where?"
"Climbing over the wall," he said.
"Jesus wep t!" the Captain said, and swung aro und to order his men in pursuit.
"I said to her," Gomm was prattling. "I said, you'll break your neck climbing over the wall. You'd be better waiting
until they open the gate -"
Op en the gate. He wasn't such a lunatic, after all. Phillipenko - " the Cap tain said," - esco rt Harvey back to his
dormitory -"
Go mm protested. " I don't need a bed-time story, thank yo u."
"G o with him ."
The guard crossed to H. G. and escorted him away. The Captain lingered long enough to murmur, "Who's a clever
boy, Sidney?" under his breath, then followed. The courtyard was empty again, but for the moonlight, and the map
of the world.
Vanessa waited until every last sound had died, and then slipped out of hiding, taking the route the dispatched
guard s had followe d. It led her, eventually, into an area she vaguely recognized from her walk with Guillemo t.
Encouraged, she hurried on along a passageway which let out into the yard with Our Lady of the Electric Eyes. She
crept along the wall, and ducked beneath the statue's gaze and out, finally, to meet the gates. They were indeed op en.
As the old m an had protested w hen they'd first met, security was woefully inadeq uate, and she thanked G od fo r it.
As she ran towards the gates she heard the sound of boots on the gravel, and glanced over her shoulder to see the
Cap tain, rifle in hand, stepping fro m be hind the tree.
"Some cho colate, Mrs. Jape?" said M r. Klein.
This is a lunatic asylum," she told him when they had escorted her back to the interrogation room. "N othing more
nor less. Yo u've no right to hold me here." H e ignored her com plaints.
"Y ou spoke to Gomm ," he said, "and he to you."
"What if he did?"
"What did he tell you?"
"I said: what if he did?"
"And I said: what did he tell you? Klein roared. She would not have guessed him capable of such apoplexy. "I want
to kno w, M rs. Jape."
Much ag ainst her will she found herself shaking at his outburst.
"H e told me no nsense ," she replied . "He's insane. I think you're all insane."
"What nonsense did he tell you?"
"It was rubb ish."
"I'd like to know , Mrs. Jape," K lein said, his fury abating. "H umo ur me."
"He said there was some kind of committee at work here, that made decisions about world politics, and that he was
one of them . That was it, for w hat it's worth."
"And?"
"And I ge ntly told him he was out of his mind."
Mr. Klein forged a smile. "Of course, this is a complete fiction," he said.
"O f course," said Vanessa. " Jesus Christ, don't treat me like an imbecile, M r. Klein. I'm a gro wn wo man -"
"M r. Go mm -"
"H e said he was a professor."
"Another delusion. Mr. Gomm is a paranoid schizophrenic. He can be extremely dangerous, given half a chance.
Yo u were pretty lucky."
"And the others?"
"Others?"

"He's not alone. I've heard them. Are they all schizophrenics?"
Klein sighed. "They're all deranged, though their conditions vary. And in their time, unlikely as it may seem, they've
all been killers." He paused to allow this information to sink in. "Some of them multiple killers. That's why they
have this place to themselves, hidd en away. That's why the o fficers are armed -"
Vanessa opened her mouth to ask why they were required to masquerade as nuns, but Klein was not about to give
her an opp ortunity.
"Believe me, it's as inconvenient for me as it is irritating for you to be here," he said.
"T hen let m e go."
"W hen my investigations are complete," he said. "In the meanwhile your cooperation would be appreciated. If Mr.
Go mm or any of the other pa tients tries to co-op t you into some plan or other, plea se report them to me immediately.
Will you do that?"
"I sup pose -"
"And please re frain from any further escape attempts. T he nex t one could prove fatal."
"I wanted to ask -"
"T omo rrow, maybe," M r. Klein said, glancing at his watch as he stood up. "For no w: sleep ."
W hich, she debated with herself when that sleep refused to come, of all the routes to the truth that lay before her,
was the unlikeliest path? She had been given several alternatives: by Gomm, by Klein, by her own common sense.
All of them were temptingly improbable. All, like the path that had brought her here, unmarked as to their final
destination. She had suffered the co nsequence of her pe rversity in following that track of course; here she was,
weary and battered, locked up with little hope of escape. But that perversity was her nature - perhaps, as Ronald had
once said, the one indisputable fact about her. If she disregarded that instinct now, despite all it had brought her to,
she was lost. She lay awake, turning the available alternatives over in her head. By morning she had made up her
mind.
She waited all day, hoping Gomm would come, but she wasn't surprised when he failed to show. It was possible that
events of the previous evening had landed him in deeper trouble than even he could talk his way out of. She was not
left entirely to herself however. Guillemot came and went, with food, with drink and - in the middle of the afternoon
- with playing cards. She picked up the gist of five-card poker quite rapidly, and they passed a contented hour or two
playing, while the air carried shouts from the courtyard where the bedlamites were racing frogs.
"Do you think you could arrange for me to have a bath, or at least a shower?" she asked him when he came back for
her dinner tray that evening. "It's getting so that I don't like my own com pany."
He actually sm iled as he resp onded. "I'll find out for yo u."
"W ould you?" she gushed. "T hat's very kind ."
He returned an hour later to tell her that dispensatio n had been sough t and granted ; would she like to acco mpa ny him
to the showers?
"Are you going to scrub my b ack? " she casually enquired.
Guillemot's eyes flickered with panic at the remark, and his ears flushed beetroot red. "Please follow me," he said.
Obediently, she followed, trying to keep a mental picture of their route should she want to retrace it later, without her
custodian.
The facilities he brought her to were far from primitive, and she regretted, walking into the mirrored bathroom, that
actually washing was no t high on her list of priorities. N ever m ind; clea nliness was for another day.
"I'll be outside the door," Guillemot said.
"That's reassuring," she replied, offering him a look she trusted he would interpret as promising, and closed the door.
Then she ran the shower as hot as it would go, until steam began to cloud the room, and went down on her hands and
knees to soap the floor. When the bathroom was sufficiently veiled and the floor sufficiently slick, she called
Guillemot. She might have been flattered by the speed of his response, but she was too busy stepping behind him as
he fumbled in the steam, and giving him a hefty push. He slid on the floor, and stumbled against the shower, yelping
as scalding water met his scalp. His automatic rifle clattered to the floor, and by the time he was righting himself she
had it in her hand, and pointed at his torso, a substantial target. Though she was no sharp-shooter, and her hands
were tremb ling, a blind wom an co uldn't have missed at such a range; she knew it, and so d id Guillemo t. He p ut his
hands up.
"D on't shoo t."
"If you move a mu scle -"
"Please . . . do n't shoot."
"N ow . . . you're going to take me to M r. Go mm and the others. Quickly and quietly."

"Why?"
"Just take me," she said, gesturing with the rifle that he should lead the way out o f the bathroom. "A nd if you try to
do anything cleve r, I'll shoot you in the bac k," she said. "I kno w it's not very manly, but then I'm not a man. I'm just
an unp redictable woma n. So treat me very carefully."
". . . yes."
He did as he was told, meekly, leading her out of the building and through a series of passageways which took them
- or so she guessed - towards the bell-tower an d the com plex that clustered ab out it. She had always assumed this,
the heart of the fortress, to be a chapel. She could not have been more wrong. T he outer shell might be tiled roof and
white-washed walls, but that was merely a facade; they stepped over the threshold into a concrete maze more
reminiscent of a bunker than a place of worship. It briefly occurred to her that the place had been built to withstand a
nuclea r attack, an imp ression reinforced by the fac t that the co rridors all led d own. If this was an asylum, it wa s built
to house so me rare lunatics.
"W hat is this place?" she asked Guillemot.
"W e call it the B oudoir," he said. " It's where everything happ ens."
There was little happening at present; most of the offices off the corridors were in darkness. In one room a computer
calculated its ch ances of inde pendent though t, unattend ed; in another a telex m achine wrote love-letters to itself.
They descended into the bowels of the place unchallenged, until, rounding a corner, they came face to face with a
woman on her hands and knees, scrubbing the linoleum. The encounter startled both parties, and Guillemot was
swift to take the initiative. He knocked Vanessa sideways against the wall, and ran for it. Before she had time to get
him in her sights, he was gone.
She cursed herself. It would be moments only before alarm bells started to ring, and guards came running. She was
lost if she stayed where she was. The three exits from this hallway looked equally unpromising, so she simply made
for the nearest, leaving the cleaner to stare after her. The route she took proved to be another adventure. It led her
through a series of rooms, one of which was lined with dozens of clocks, all showing different times; the next of
which contained upwards of fifty black telephones; the third and largest was lined on every side with television
screens. They rose, one upon another, from floor to ceiling. All but one was blank. The exception to this rule was
showing what she first took to be a mud-wrestling contest, but was in fact a poorly reproduced pornographic film.
Sitting watching it, sprawled on a chair with a beer-can balanced on his stomach, was a moustachioed nun. He stood
up as she entered: caught in the act. She pointed the rifle at him.
"I'm going to shoot you dead," she told him.
"Shit."
"Where's Gomm and the others?"
"What?"
"W here are they? " she dem anded. "Quickly?
"D own the hall. T urn left and left again," he said. T hen ad ded , "I do n't want to die."
"Then sit down and shut up," she replied.
"Thank God," he said.
"W hy don't you?" she told him. As she backed out of the room he fell down on his knees, while the mud-wrestlers
cavorted behind him.
Left and left again. The directions were fruitful: they led her to a series of rooms. She was just about to knock on one
of the doors when the alarm sounded. Throwing caution to the wind she pushed all the doors open. Voices from
within complained at being woken, and asked what the alarm was ringing for. In the third room she found Gomm.
He grinned at her.
"Vanessa," he said, bounding out into the corridor. He was wearing a long vest, and nothing else. "You came, eh?
Yo u cam e!"
The others were appearing from their roo ms, bleary with slee p. Ireniya, Floyd , Mottershead, Goldberg. She could
believe - looking at their raddled faces - that they indeed had four hundred years between them.
"W ake up, you old buggers," Gomm said. He had found a pair of trousers and was pulling them on.
"T he alarm's ringing - " one co mmen ted. His hair, which was bright white, was almost at his shoulde rs.
"They'll be here soon -" Ireniya said.
"No matter," Gomm replied.
Floyd was already dressed. "I'm ready," he announced.
"B ut we're outnumbered," V anessa protested. " W e'll never ge t out alive."
"She's right," said one, sq uinting at her. "It's no use."
"Shut up, Goldberg," Gomm snapped. "She's got a gun, hasn't she?"
"O ne," said the white-haired individual. This m ust be M ottershead. "One gun against all of them."

"I'm going back to bed," Goldberg said.
"T his is a chance to escap e," G omm said. "Pro bab ly the only chance we'll ever get."
"He's right," the woman said.
"And what about the games?" Goldberg reminded them.
"Fo rget the games," Flo yd told the othe r, "let them stew a while."
"It's too late," said Vanessa. " They're com ing." T here w ere sho uts from both ends of the co rridor. "W e're trapp ed."
"Good," said Gomm.
"Y ou are insane ," she to ld him plainly.
"Yo u can still shoot us," he replied, grinning.
Floyd grunted. "I don't want to get out of here that much," he said.
"T hreaten it! Threaten it!" Go mm said. "Tell them if they try anything yo u'll shoot us a ll!"
Ireniya smiled. She had left her teeth in her bedroom. "You're not just a pretty face," she said to Gomm.
"H e's right," said Floyd , beam ing now. "T hey wo uldn't dare risk us. T hey'll have to let us go."
"Yo u're out of your minds," Goldberg muttered. "There's nothing out there for us . . ." He returned into his room and
slammed the door. Even as he did so the corridor was blocked off at either end by a mass of guards. Gomm took
hold of Vanessa 's rifle and raise d it to point at his heart.
"Be gentle," he hissed, and threw her a kiss.
"Put down the we apon, Mrs. Jap e," said a familiar voice. Mr. K lein had app eared am ongst the throng o f guards.
Take it from me, you are comp letely surro unde d."
"I'll kill them all," Vanessa said, a little hesitantly. T hen again, this time with mo re feeling: "I'm w arning you. I'm
desp erate. I'll kill them all before you shoo t me."
"I see . . ." said Klein quietly. "And why should you assume that I give a damn whether you kill them or not? T hey're
insane. I told you that: all lunatics, killers . . ."
"W e both know that isn't true," said Vanessa, gaining confidence from the anxiety on Klein's face. "I want the front
gates opened, and the key in the ignition of my car. If you try anything stupid, Mr. Klein, I will systematically shoot
these ho stages. N ow d ismiss your bully-boys an d do as I say."
Mr. Klein hesitated, then signalled a gene ral withdrawal.
Gomm's eyes glittered. "Nicely done," he whispered.
"W hy don't you lead the way? " Vanessa suggested. G omm did as he was instructed, and her small party snaked their
way out past the massed clocks and telep hone s and video screens. Every step they took Va nessa e xpected a bullet to
find her, but Mr. Klein was clearly too concerned for the health of the ancients to risk calling her bluff. They reached
the op en air without incident.
The guards were in evidence outside, though attempting to stay out of sight. Vanessa kept the rifle trained on the
four captives as they headed through the yards to where her car was parked. The gates had been opened.
"G omm ," she w hispered. " Op en the car do ors."
Go mm did so . He had said that age had shrunk them all, and perhap s that was true, but there we re five of them to fit
into the small vehicle, and it was tightly packed. Vanessa was the last to get in. As she ducked to slide into the
driving seat a shot rang out, and she felt a blow to her shoulder. She dropped the rifle.
"Bastards," said Gomm.
"Leave her," somebody piped up in the back, but Gomm was already out of the car and bundling her into the back
beside Floyd. He then slid into the driving seat himself and started the engine.
"Can you drive?" Ireniya demanded.
"O f course I can bloo dy drive!" he retorted, and the car jerked forw ard through the gates, the gears grating.
Vanessa had never been shot before, and hoped - if she survived this episode - to avoid it happening again. The
wound in her shoulder was bleeding badly. Floyd did his best to staunch the wound, but Gom m's driving made any
really constructive help practically impossible.
There's a track -" she mana ged to tell him, " off that way."
"Which way's that way? Gomm yelled.
"Right! Right!" she yelled back.
Gomm took both hands off the wheel and looked at them.
"W hich is right?
"Fo r Christ's sake-"
Ireniya, in the seat beside him, pressed his hand s back onto the wheel. T he car performed a tarantella. Vanessa
groaned with every bump.
"I see it!" said Gomm . "I see the track!" He revved the car up, and put his foot on the accelerator.
One of the back doors, which had been inadequately secured, flipped open and Vanessa almost fell out. Mottershead,

reaching over Floyd, yanked her back to safety, but before they could close the door it met the boulder that marked
the converg ence of the two tracks. The car bucked as the do or was torn o ff its hinges.
"W e needed mo re air in here," said Gomm , and drove on.
Theirs was not the o nly engine disturb ing the A egean night. T here were lights b ehind them, and the sound of hectic
pursuit. With Guillemot's rifle left in the conv ent, they ha d no sudd en de ath to bargain with, and Klein knew it.
"Step on it!" Floyd said, grinning from ear to ear. "T hey're coming after us."
"I'm going as fast as I can," Gomm insisted.
Turn off the lights," Ireniya sugge sted. "It'll make us less of a target."
Then I won't be able to see the track," Gomm complained over the roar of the engine.
"So what? Yo u're not driving on it anyhow."
Mottershead laughed, and so - against her better instincts - did Vanessa. Maybe the loss of blood was making her
irresponsible, but she couldn't help herself. Four Methuselahs and herself in a three-door car driving around in the
dark: only a ma dman would have taken this seriously. And there was the final and incontestible p roof that these
peo ple we ren't the lunatics Klein had marked them as, for they saw the hum our in it too. Gomm had even taken to
singing as he drove: snatches of Verdi, and a falsetto rendering of "Over the Rainbow".
And if - as her dizzied mind had concluded - these were creatures as sane as herself, then what of the tale that Gomm
had told? ; was that true too? W as it possible that Arma geddon had been kep t at bay by these few giggling geriatrics?
They're gaining on us!" Floyd said. He was on his knees on the back seat, peering out of the window.
"W e're not go ing to make it," M ottershead obse rved, his laughter bare ly abating . "W e're all going to die."
"T here!" Ireniya yelled. T here's another track! T ry that! Try that!"
Gomm swung the wheel, and the car almost tipped over as it swung off the main track and followed this new route.
W ith the lights extinguished it was impossible to see more than a glimmer of the road ahead, but Gomm's style was
not about to be cramped by such minor considerations. He revved the car until the engine fairly screeched. Dust was
flung up and through the gap where the door had been; a goat fled from the path ahead seconds before losing its life.
"Where are we going?" Vanessa yelled.
"Haven't a clue," Gomm returned. "Have you?
W herever they were heading, they were going at a fair speed. This track was flatter than the one they'd left, and
Gom m was taking full advantage of the fact. Again, he'd taken to singing.
Mottershead was leaning out of the window on the far side of the car, his hair streaming, watching for their pursuers.
"W e're losing them!" he howled triumphantly. "W e're losing them!"
A com mon ex hilaration seized all the travellers now, and they began to sing along with H .G. They were singing so
loudly that Gomm couldn't hear Mottershead inform him that the road ahead seemed to disappear. Indeed H.G. was
not aware that he had driven the car over the cliff until the vehicle took a nose-dive, and the sea came up to meet
them.
"Mrs. Jape? Mrs. Jape?"
Vanessa woke unwillingly. Her head hurt, her arm hurt. There had been some terrible times recently, though it took
her a while to remembe r the substance of them. Then the memories came back. T he car pitching over the cliff; the
cold sea rushing in through the open door; the frantic cries around her as the vehicle sank. She had struggled free,
only half conscious, vaguely aware that Floyd was floating up beside her. She had said his name, but he had not
answered. She said it again, now.
"D ead," said Mr. Klein. They're all dea d."
"O h my G od," she murmured. S he was looking not at his face b ut at a cho colate stain on his waistco at.
"Never mind them now," he insisted.
"Never mind?"
"T here's mo re imp ortant business, Mrs. Jape. Yo u must get up, and quickly."
The urgency in Klein's voice brought Vanessa to her feet. "Is it morning?" she said. There were no windows in the
room they occupied. This was the Bou doir, to judge by its concrete walls.
"Yes, it's morning," Klein replied, impatiently. "Now, will you come with me? I have something to show you." He
opened the doo r and they stepped out into the grim corridor. A little way ahead it sounded as if a major argument
was going o n; dozens of raised voices, imp recations and pleadings.
"What's happening?"
They're warming up for the Apocalypse," he replied, and led the way into the room where Va nessa had last seen the
mud-wrestlers. Now all of the video-screens were buzzing, and each displayed a different interior. There were warrooms and presidential suites, Cabinet Offices and Halls of Congress. In every one of them, somebod y was shouting.
"You've been unconscious two full days," Klein told her, as if this went some way to explaining the cacophony. Her

head ached already. She looked from screen to screen: from Washington to Hamburg to Sydney to Rio de Janeiro.
Everywhere around the globe the mighty were waiting for news. But the oracles were dead.
They're just performers," Klein said, gesturing at the shouting screens. They couldn't run a three-legged race, never
mind the world. T hey're getting hysterical, and they're button-fingers are starting to itch."
"W hat am I supp osed to do about it?" V anessa returned. T his tour o f Bab el dep ressed her. "I'm no strategist."
"N either were G omm and the others. Th ey might have b een, once up on a tim e, but things soo n fell apart."
"Systems decay," she said.
"Isn't that the truth. By the time I cam e here half the com mittee were alread y dead. And the rest had lost all interest
in their duties - "
"But they still provided judgements, as H.G. said?"
"O h yes."
They ruled the world?"
"After a fashion," Klein replied.
"What do you mean: after a fashion?"
Klein looked at the screen s. His eyes seemed to be o n the verge of spilling tears.
"Didn't he explain,? They played games, Mrs. Jape. When they became bored with sweet reason and the sound of
their ow n voices, they gave up debate and took to flipping coins."
"N o."
"And racing frogs of co urse. T hat was always a favourite."
"B ut the governm ents - " she pro tested," - surely they d idn't just acc ept -"
"Yo u think they care?" Klein said, "As long as they're in the public eye what does it matter to them what verbiage
they're spouting, or how it was arrived at?"
Her head spun. "All chance?" she said.
"W hy not? It has a ve ry respectab le tradition. Na tions have fallen on decision s divined from the entrails of sheep."
"It's prep ostero us."
"I agree. But I ask you, in all honesty, is it many more terrifying than leaving the power in their hands?" He pointed
to the ro ws of irate faces. D emo crats sweating tha t the mo rrow find them without causes to espouse or ap plause to
win; despots in terror that without instruction their cruelties would lose favour and be overturned. One premier
seemed to have suffered a bronchial attack and was being supported by two of his aides; another clutched a revolver
and was pointing it at the screen, dem anding satisfaction; a third was chewing his toup e. W ere these the finest fruit
of the political tree?; babbling, bullying, cajoling idiots, driven to apoplexy because nobody would tell them which
way to jump? There wasn't a man or woman amongst them Vanessa would have trusted to guide her across the road.
"Better the frogs," she murm ured, bitter thought that it was.
The light in the courtyard, after the dead illumination of the bunker, was dazzlingly bright, but Vanessa was pleased
to be out of earshot of the stridency within. They would find a new committee very soon, Klein had told her as they
made their way out into the open air: it would be a matter of weeks only before equilibrium was restored. In the
meanwhile, the earth could be blown to smithereens by the desperate creatures she had just seen. They needed
judgements, and quickly.
"G oldb erg is still alive," Klein said. "And he will go on with the gam es; but it takes two to play."
"Why not you?"
"B ecause he hates me. Ha tes all of us. H e says that he'll only play with you."
Goldberg was sitting under the laurel trees, playing patience. It was a slow business. His shortsightedness required
him to bring each card to within three inches of his nose to read it, and by the time he had got to the end of the line
he had forgotten those cards at the beginning.
"She's agreed," said Klein. Goldb erg didn't look up from his game. "I said: she's agreed."
"I'm blind, not deaf," Goldberg told Klein, still perusing the cards. When he eventually looked up it was to squint at
Vanessa. "I told them it would end badly . . ." he said softly, and Vanessa knew that beneath this show of fatalism he
felt the loss of his companions acutely.". . . I said from the beginning, we were here to stay. No use to escape." He
shrugged, and returned to the ca rds. "W hat's to esca pe to? T he wo rld's changed. I know . W e changed it."
"It wasn't so bad," Vanessa said.
"The world?"
They way the y died."
"Ah."
"W e were enjoying ourselves, until the last minute."
"G omm was such a sentimentalist," Go ldberg said. "W e neve r much liked each other."

A large frog jumped into Vanessa's path. The movement caught Goldberg's eye.
"Who is it?" he said.
The creature regarded Vanessa's foot balefully. "Just a frog," she replied.
"What does it look like?"
"It's fat," she said. "W ith three re d do ts on its ba ck."
"T hat's Israel," he told her. "D on't tread on him ."
"Could we have some decisions by noon?" Klein butted in. "Particularly the Gulf situation, and the Mexican dispute,
and -"
"Y es, yes, yes," said G oldb erg. "N ow go away."
" - W e cou ld have ano ther B ay of P igs -"
"You're telling me nothing I don't know. Go! You're disturbing the nations." He peered at Vanessa. "Well, are you
going to sit down or not?"
She sa t.
"I'll leave you to it." Klein said, and retreated.
Goldbe rg had begun to make a sound in his throat - "kek-kek-kek" -imitating the voice of a frog. In response, there
came a cro aking fro m eve ry corner of the courtyard. H earing the sound, V anessa stifled a smile. Farce, she ha d told
herself once before, had to be played with a straight face, as though you b elieved every o utrageous word. Only
traged y dem anded laughter; and that, with the aid of the frogs, they might yet prevent.

IN THE FLESH
W hen Cleveland Smith returned to his cell after the interview with the Landing Officer, his new bunk mate was
alread y in reside nce, staring at the d ust-infested sunlight thro ugh the reinforced glass wind ow. It wa s a short display;
for less than half an hour each afternoon (clouds permitting) the sun found its way between the wall and the
adm inistration building and edge d its way along the side of B W ing, not to appear again until the fo llowing day.
"You're Tait?" Cleve said.
The prisoner looked away from the sun. Mayflower had said the new boy was twenty-two, but Tait looked five years
younger. He had the face of a lost dog. An ugly dog, at that; a dog left by its owners to play in traffic. Eyes too
skinned, mo uth too soft, arms too slender: a born victim. Cleve was irritated to ha ve be en lumbered with the boy.
Tait was dead weight, and he had no energies to expend on the boy's protection, despite Mayflower's pep-talk about
extending a welcoming hand.
"Y es," the dog replied . "W illiam."
"People call you William?"
"N o," the boy sa id. "T hey call me B illy."
"B illy." Cleve nod ded , and steppe d into the cell. T he regime at P entonville was re latively enlightened ; cells were left
ope n for two hours in the mornings, and often two in the afternoon, allowing the cons som e freed om o f movement.
The arrangement had its disadvantages, however, which was where Mayflower's talk came in.
"I've been told to give you so me advice ."
"Oh?" the boy replied.
"You've not done time before?"
"N o."
"Not even borstal?"
Tait's eyes flickered . "A little."
"So you know what the score is. Y ou know yo u're easy m eat."
"Sure."
"Seems I've b een vo lunteered," Cleve said without ap petite, 'to keep you from getting mauled ."
Tait stared at Cleve with eyes the blue of which was m ilky, as though the sun was still in them. "D on't put yourself
out," the bo y said. "Yo u don't owe me anything."
"D amn right I do n't. But it seem s I got a so cial resp onsibility." Cleve said sourly. "And you're it."
Cleve was two months into his sentence for handling marijuana; his third visit to Pentonville. At thirty years of age
he was far from obso lete. His body was solid, his face lean and refined; in his court suit he could have passed for a

lawyer at ten yards. A little closer, and the viewer might catch the scar on his neck, the result of an attack by a
penniless ad dict, and a ce rtain wariness in his gait, as if with every step forward he was keeping the op tion of a
speedy retreat.
You're still a young man, the last judge had told him, you still have time to change your spots. He hadn't disagreed
out lou d, but Cleve knew in his heart he was a leop ard b orn and bred. C rime was easy, work was not. Until
some bo dy prov ed otherwise he wo uld d o w hat he did best, and take the conseq uences if caught. D oing tim e wasn't
so unpalatable, if you had the right attitude to it. The food was edible, the company select; as long as he had
something to ke ep his mind o ccupied he was con tent enough. At present he was rea ding abo ut sin. Now there was a
subject. In his time he'd heard so many explanations of how it had come into the world; from probation officers and
lawyers and priests. Theories sociological, theological, ideological. Some were worthy of a few minutes"
considera tion. Mo st were so absurd (sin from the wo mb; sin from the state) he laughed in their apo logists" faces.
None held water for long.
It was a good bone to chew over, though. H e needed a pro blem to occupy the days. And nights; he slept badly in
prison. It wasn't his guilt that kept him awake, but that of others. He was, after all, just a hash-pusher, supplying
wherever there was a demand: a minor cog in the consumerist machine; he had nothing to feel guilty about. But
there were others here, many others it seemed, whose dreams were not so benevolent, nor nights so peaceful. They
would cry, they would complain; they would curse judges local and celestial. Their din would have kept the dead
awake.
"Is it always like this?" Billy asked Cleve after a week or so. A new inmate was making a ruckus down the landing:
one mo ment tears, the next ob scenities.
"Y es. M ost of the time," sa id Cleve. "S ome of them need to yell a bit. It keeps their minds from curdling."
"N ot you," o bserved the unmu sic al voice from the bunk below, "you just read your boo ks and keep o ut of harm's
way. I've watched you. It doesn't bother you, does it?"
"I can live with it," Cleve replied . "I got no wife to com e here every week and remind me what I'm missing."
"You been in before?"
Tw ice."
The boy hesitated an instant before saying, "I suppose you know your way around the place, do you?"
"W ell, I'm not writing a guidebook, but I go t the general lay-out by no w." It seemed an o dd comm ent for the boy to
make. "Why?"
"I just wond ered," said Billy.
"You got a question?"
Tait didn't answer for several seconds, then said: "I heard they used to ... used to hang p eop le here."
W hateve r Cleve had been expe cting the b oy to come out with, tha t wasn't it. But the n he had decided severa l days
back that Billy Tait was a strange one. Sly, side-long glances from those milky-blue eyes; a way he had of staring at
the wall or at the window like a detective at a murder-scene, desperate for clues.
Cleve said, " There use d to b e a han ging shed, I think."
Again, silence; and then another enquiry, dropped as lightly as the boy could contrive. "Is it still standing?"
"The shed? I don't know. They don't hang people any more, Billy, or hadn't you heard?" There was no reply from
below. "What's it to you, anyhow?"
"Just curiou s."
Billy was right; curious he was. So odd, with his vacant stares and his solitary manner, that most of the men kept
clear o f him. Only Low ell took any interest in him, and his motives fo r that were uneq uivocal.
"Yo u want to lend me your lady for the afternoon?" he asked Cleve while they waited in line for breakfast. Tait, who
stood within earshot, said nothing; neither did Cleve.
"Y ou hear me? I asked you a question."
"I heard. Y ou leave him alone."
"Share and share alike," Lo well said. "I can do yo u som e favours. W e can work something o ut."
"H e's not available."
"Well, why don't I ask him?" Lowell said, grinning through his beard. "What do you say, baby?"
Tait looked round at Lowell.
"I say no thank you."
"N o thank you," Lowell said, an d gave Cleve a second smile, this quite without humou r. "Y ou've go t him well
trained. Does he sit up and beg, too?"
Take a walk, Lo well," C leve replied. "He's not ava ilable and that's all there is to it."
"Yo u can't keep your eyes on him every minute of the day," Lowell pointed out. "Sooner o r later he's going to have

to stand on his o wn two feet. Unless he's better kne eling."
The innuendo won a guffaw fro m Lo well's cell-mate, Nayler. Neither were men Cleve wo uld have willingly fac ed in
a free-for-all, but his skills as a bluffer were honed razor-sharp, and he used them now.
"Y ou don't want to trouble yourself," he to ld Lo well, "yo u can o nly cover so m any scars with a beard."
Low ell looked at C leve, all humou r fled. H e clearly could n't distinguish the truth from bluff, and equa lly clearly
wasn't willing to put his neck on the line.
"Just don't look the other way." he said, and said no more.
The encounter at breakfast wa sn't mentioned until that night, when the lights had been extinguished. It was B illy
who brought it up.
"Y ou sho uldn't have done that," he said. "Lo well's a bad bastard. I've heard the talk."
"You want to get raped then, do you?"
"N o," he said q uickly, "C hrist no. I got to be fit."
"Y ou'll be fit for nothing if Lowell gets his hands on you."
Billy slipped out from his bunk and stood in the middle of the cell, barely visible in the gloom. "I suppose you want
something in return," he said.
Cleve turned on his pillow and looked at the uncertain silhouette standing a yard from him. "What have you got that
I'd want, Billy-Boy?" he said.
"W hat Lo well wan ted."
"Is that what you think that bluster was all about? Me staking my claim?"
"Y eah."
"Like you sa id: no thank you." Cleve ro lled over again to face the wa ll.
"I didn't mean -"
"I do n't care what you meant. I just don 't want to hear about it, all right? You stay out of Lo well's way, and do n't
give me shit."
"H ey," B illy murmured, "do n't get like that, please. P lease. Y ou're the only friend I've got."
"I'm nobody's friend," Cleve said to the wall. "I just don't want any inconvenience. Understand me?"
"No inconvenience," the boy repeated, dull-tongued.
"Right. No w ... I need my beauty sleep ."
Tait said no more, but returned to the bottom bunk, and lay dow n, the springs cre aking as he did so. Cleve lay in
silence, turning the excha nge over in his head. He had no wish to lay hands on the boy; b ut perh aps he had mad e his
point too harshly. Well, it was done.
From below he could hear Billy murmuring to himself, almost inaudibly. He strained to eavesdrop on what the boy
was saying. It took severa l secon ds of ear-pricking atten tion be fore C leve realized that Billy-Boy w as saying his
prayers.
Cleve dreamt that night. What of, he couldn't remember in the morning, though as he showered and shaved
tantalizing grains of the dream sifted through his head. Scarcely ten minutes went by that morning without
something - salt overturned on the breakfast table, or the sound of shouts in the exercise yard - promising to break
his dream: but the revelation did no t come. It left him unchara cteristically edgy and sho rt-tempered. W hen W esley, a
small-time forger whom he knew from his previous vacation here, approached him in the library and started to talk
as though they were bosom pals, Cleve told the runt to shut up. But W esley insisted on speaking.
"Y ou go t trouble. "
"Oh. How so?"
"T hat bo y of yours. Billy. "
"What about him?"
"H e's asking questions. He's getting pushy. People don't like it. They're saying you should take him in hand ."
"I'm no t his keep er."
W esley pu lled a fac e. "I'm telling you; as a friend."
"Sp are me."
"D on't be stupid, C leveland. You're making enemies."
"O h?" said C leve. "Name o ne."
"Lo well," W esley said , quick as a flash. " Nayler for an other. All kinds of people. They don't like the way T ait is."
"And how is he?" Cleve snapped back.
Wesley made a small grunt of protest. "I'm just trying to tell you," he said. "He's sly. Like a fucking rat. There'll be
troub le."

"Sp are me the prophecies."
The law of averages demands the worst prophet be right some of the time: this was W esley's moment it seemed. The
day after, coming back from the W orkshop where he'd exercised his intellect putting wheels on plastic cars, Cleve
found Ma yflower waiting for him on the landing.
"I asked you to look after William Tait, Smith," the officer said. "Don't you give a damn?"
"What's happened?"
"No, I suppose you don't."
"I asked what hap pened. Sir."
"Nothing much. Not this time. He's banged about, that's all. Seems Lowell has a hankering after him. Am I right?"
Mayflower peered at Cleve, and when he got no response went on: "I made an error with you, Smith. I thought there
was something worth app ealing to under the hard ma n. M y mistake."
Billy was lying on the bunk, his face bruised, his eyes closed. He didn't open them when Cleve came in. "You OK?"
"Sure," the boy sa id softly.
"No bones broken?"
"I'll survive."
"Y ou've go t to understand -"
"Listen." B illy opened his eyes. The pupils had darkened somehow, or that was the trick the light p erform ed with
them. "I'm alive, OK? I'm not an idiot you know. I knew what I was letting myself in for, coming here." He spoke as
if he'd had a choice in the matter. "I can take Lowell," he went on, 'so don't fret." He paused, then said: "You were
right."
"About what?"
"Abo ut not having friends. I'm on my own, you're on your own. Right? I'm just a slow learner; but I'm getting the
hang of it." H e smiled to himself.
"Y ou've been asking questions," Cleve said.
"Oh, yeah?" Billy replied off-handedly. "Who says?"
"If you've got questions, ask me. People do n't like snoopers. They get suspicious. And then they turn their backs
when Lowell and his like get heavy."
Naming the man brought a painful frown to Billy's face. He touched his bruised cheek. "He's dead," the boy
murm ured, almost to himself.
"Some chance," Cleve commented.
The look that T ait returne d could have sliced steel. "I m ean it," he said, without a tra ce of d oubt in his voice. "Lowell
won't get out alive."
Cleve didn't comment; the boy needed this show of bra vado, laughable as it was.
"What do you want to know, that you go snooping around?"
"Nothing much," Billy replied. He was no longer looking at Cleve, but staring at the bunk above. Quietly, he said: "I
just wanted to know where the grav es were, that was all."
The graves?"
"W here they buried the men they'd hanged. Somebody told me there's a rose-bush where Crippen's buried. You ever
hear that?"
Cleve shook his head. Only now d id he re mem ber the boy asking ab out the hanging shed ; and now the graves. Billy
looked up at him. The bruise was ripening by the minute.
"You know where they are, Cleve?" he asked. Again, that feigned nonchalance.
"I co uld find out, if you d o me the courtesy of telling me why you want to know ."
Billy looked out from the shelter of the bunk. The afternoon sun was describing its short arc on the painted brick of
the cell wall. It was weak today. The boy slid his legs off the bunk and sat on the edge of the mattress, staring at the
light as he had o n that first day.
"My grandfather - that is, my mother's father - was hanged here," he said, his voice raw. "In 1937. Edgar Tait. Edgar
St Clair Tait."
"I thought you said your mother's father?"
"I too k his nam e. I didn't want my father's name . I never belo nged to him."
"N obo dy belongs to anybo dy." C leve replied. "You're your own man ."
"But that's not true," Billy said with a tiny shrug, still staring at the light on the wall. His certainty was immovable;
the gentility with which he spo ke did not und ercut the authority of the statement. "I belong to my grandfather. I
always have."
"Y ou weren't even born when he -"

"T hat do esn't matter. Com ing and going; that's nothing."
Coming and going, Cleve puzzled; did Ta it mean life and death? He had no chance to ask. Billy was talking again,
the same subdued but insistent flow.
"He was guilty of course. Not the way they thought he was, but guilty. He knew what he was and what he was
capable o f; that's guilt, isn't it? He killed four peop le. Or at least that's wha t they hanged him for."
"You mean he killed more?"
Billy made another sma ll shrug: numbe rs didn't matter ap parently. "B ut nob ody came to see where they'd laid him to
rest. That's not right, is it? They didn't care, I suppose. All the family were glad he was gone, probably. Thought he
was wrong in the head from the beginning. But he wasn't. I know he wasn't. I've got his hands, and his eyes. So Mam
said. She told me all about him, you see, just b efore she died. T old m e things she'd neve r told anybody, and only told
me because of my eyes . . ." he faltered, and put his hand to his lip, as if the fluctuating light on the brick had already
mesmerised him into saying too much.
"What did your mother tell you?" Cleve pressed him.
Billy seemed to weigh up alternative responses before offering one. "Just that he and I were alike in some ways," he
said.
"Crazy, you mean?" C leve said, only half-joking.
"Something like that," Billy replied, eyes still on the wall. He sighed, then allowed himself a further confession.
"T hat's why I came he re. So my grandfather would know he hadn't been forgotten."
"Came here? " said Cleve . "W hat are you talking abo ut? Y ou we re caught and sentenc ed. Y ou had no choice."
The light on the wall was extinguished as a cloud passed over the sun. Billy looked up at Cleve. The light was there,
in his eyes.
"I co mmitted a crime to get here," the boy rep lied. "It was a deliberate act."
Cleve sho ok his head. The claim was prep osterous.
"I tried before: twice. It's taken time. But I got here, didn't I?"
"Don't take me for a fool, Billy," Cleve warned.
"I don't," the o ther rep lied. H e stood up now. H e seem ed somehow lighter for the story he'd told; he even smiled, if
tentatively, as he said: "You've been good to me. D on't think I don't know that. I'm grateful. Now - " he faced Cleve
before saying: "I wan t to know where the graves are. Find that out and you won 't hear ano ther pe ep from me , I
promise."
Cleve knew next to nothing about the prison or its history, but he knew somebod y who did. There was a man by the
name of Bishop -so familiar to the inmates that his name had acquired the definite article - who was often at the
W orkshop at the same time as C leve. The Bishop had been in and out of prison for much of his forty odd yea rs,
mostly for minor misdemeanours, and - with all the fatalism of a one-legged man who makes a life-study of
monopedia - had become an expert on prisons and the penal system. Little of his information came from books. He
had gleaned the bulk of his knowledge from old lags and screws who wanted to talk the hours away, and by degrees
he had turned himself into a walking encyc lopaedia o n crime and punishment. He had m ade it his trade, and he sold
his carefully accrued knowledge by the sentence; sometimes as geographical information to the would-be escapee,
sometimes as priso n mytho logy to the god less con in search of a local d ivinity. No w Cleve sought him out, and laid
down his payment in toba cco and IOU s.
"W hat can I do for you?" The Bishop asked. He was heavy, but not unhealthily so. The needle-thin cigarettes he was
perpetually rolling and smoking were dwarfed by his butcher's fingers, stained sepia by nicotine.
"I want to kno w about the hangings here."
The Bishop smiled. "Such good sto ries," he said; and began to tell.
On the plain details, Billy had been substantially correct. T here had been ha ngings in Pentonville up until the midd le
of the century, but the shed had long since been demolished. On the spot now stood the Prob ation Office in B W ing.
As to the story of Crippen's roses, there was truth in that too. In front of a hut in the grounds, which, The Bishop
informed C leve, was a store for gard ening equipment, was a sma ll patch of grass, in the centre of which a b ush
flourished, planted (and at this point The Bishop confessed that he could not tell fact from fiction) in memory of
Doctor Crippen, hanged in 1910.
"That's where the graves are?" Cleve asked.
"No , no," The Bishop said, reducing half of one of his tiny cigarettes to ash with a single inhalation. The graves are
alongside the wall, to the left behind the hut. There's a long lawn; yo u must have se en it."
"No stones?"
"A bsolutely not. T he plots have always been left unm arked. Only the G overnor knows who's buried where; and he's
probably lost the plans." The B ishop ferreted for his tobacco tin in the breast-pocket of his prison-issue shirt and

be gan to roll ano ther cigarette with such familiarity he scarcely glanced do wn at what he was doing. "Nob od y's
allowed to come and mo urn you see. O ut of sight, out of mind: that's the idea. Of course, that's not the way it works,
is it? People forget Prime Ministers, but they remember murderers. You walk on that lawn, and just six feet under
are some of the most notorious men who ever graced this green and pleasant land. And not even a cross to mark the
spot. Criminal, isn't it?"
"You know who's buried there?"
"Some very wicked gentlemen," the Bishop replied, as if fondly admonishing them for their mischief-mongering.
"You heard of a man called Edgar Tait?"
Bishop raised his eyebrows; the fat of his b row furrowe d. "Saint Tait? O h certainly. He's not easily forgotten."
"What do you know about him?"
"H e killed his wife, and then his children . To ok a knife to them all, as I live and b reathe."
"All?"
The Bishop put the freshly-rolled cigarette to his thick lips. "Maybe not all," he said, narrowing his eyes as he tried
to recall the specific details. "M aybe one o f them survived . I think pe rhaps a daughter . . ." he shrugged dismissively.
"I'm not very good at remembering the victims. But then, who is?" He fixed his bland gaze on Cleve. "Why are you
so intere sted in T ait? H e was hanged before the war."
"1937. He'll be well gone, eh?"
The Bishop raised a cautionary fore-finger. "Not so," he said. "You see the land this prison is built upon has special
properties. Bodies buried here don't rot the way they do elsewhere." Cleve shot The Bishop an incredulous glance.
"It's true," the fat man protested mildly, "I have it on unimpeachable authority. Take it from me, whenever they've
had to exhume a body from the plot it's always been found in alm ost perfect co ndition." He pau sed to light his
cigarette, and drew upon it, exhaling the smoke through his mo uth with his next words. "W hen the end o f the world
is upon us, the good men o f Ma rylebo ne and Cam den To wn will rise up as ro t and b one. But the wicked ?; they'll
dance to Judge ment as fresh as the day they dro ppe d. Imagine that." T his perverse notion clearly delighted him. H is
pudgy face puckered and dimpled with pleasure at it. "Ah," he mused, "And who'll be calling who corrupt on that
fine morning?"
Cleve never worked out precisely how Billy talked his way on to the gardening detail, but he managed it. Perhaps he
had appealed directly to Mayflower, who'd persuaded his superiors that the boy could be trusted out in the fresh air.
However he worked the manoeuvre, in the midd le of the week following C leve's discovery of the graves"
whereab outs, Billy was out in the cold A pril morning cutting grass.
W hat happened that day filtered back down the grapevine around recreation time. Cleve had the story from three
indep endent sources, no ne of whom had b een o n the spot. The accounts had a variety of colo rations, but were clearly
of the same species. The bare bo nes went as follows:
The gardening d etail, made up o f four men overlooked by a single prison officer, were moving aro und the blocks,
trimming grass and weeding beds in preparation for the spring planting. Custody had been lax, apparently. It was
two or three m inutes before the officer even noticed that one of his charges had edge d to the perip hery of the party
and slipped away. The alarm was raised. The officers did not have to loo k far, however. Tait had m ade no attempt to
escape, or if he had he'd been stymied in his bid by a fit of some kind, which had crippled him. He was found (and
here the stories parted company considerably) on a large patch of lawn beside the wall, lying on the grass. Some
reports claimed he was black in the face, his body knotted up and his tongue all but bitten through; others that he
was found face down, talking to the earth, weeping and cajoling. The consensus was that the boy had lost his mind.
The rumours m ade Cleve the centre of atten tion; a situation he did no t relish. Fo r the nex t day he was sca rcely left
alone ; men wanting to know what it was like to sha re a cell with a lunatic. He had nothing to tell, he insisted. T ait
had been the perfect cell-mate -quiet, undemanding and unquestionably sane. He told the same story to Mayflower
when he was grilled the following day; and later, to the prison doctor. He let not a breath of Tait's interest in the
graves be known, and made it his business to see The Bishop and request a similar silence of him. The man was
willing to o blige o nly if vouchsafed the full story in d ue co urse. T his Clev e pro mised . The Bishop, as befitted his
assumed clerity, was as good as his word.
Billy was gone from the fold for two days. In the interim Mayflower disappeared from his duties as Landing Officer.
No exp lanation was given. In his place, a man called Devlin was transferred from D W ing. His reputation went
before him. He w as not, it seemed, a man of rare compa ssion. T he imp ression was co nfirmed when, the day of Billy
Tait's return, Cleve was summoned into Devlin's office.
"I'm told you and Tait are close," Devlin said. He had a face as giving as granite.
"N ot really, sir."

"I'm no t going to make Mayflower's mistake, S mith. As far as I'm co ncerned T ait is troub le. I'm going to watch him
like a hawk, and when I'm not here you're going to do it for me, understand? If he so much as crosses his eyes it's the
ghost train. I'll have him out of here and into a special unit before he can fart. Do I make myself clear?"
"Paying your respects, were you?"
Billy had lost weight in the hosp ital; pounds his sc rawny fra me could scarcely afford . His shirt hung off his
shoulders; his b elt was on its tightest no tch. T he thinning mo re than ever emph asized his physical vulnerability; a
featherweight blow would floor him, Cleve thought. But it lent his face a new, almost desperate, intensity. He
seemed all eyes; and those had lost all trace of captured sunlight. Gone, too, was the pretense of vacuity, replaced
with an eerie purp osefulness.
"I asked a q uestion."
"I heard you," Billy said. There was no sun today, but he looked at the wall anyway. "Yes, if you must know, I was
paying my resp ects."
"I've been told to wa tch you, by Devlin. H e wants you off the Landing. T ransferred entirely, maybe."
"Out?" The panicked look Billy gave Cleve was too naked to be met for more than a few seconds. "Away from here,
you mean?"
"I wo uld think so."
They can't!"
"O h, they can. They call it the ghost train. One minute you're he re; the next -"
"No ," the boy said, hands suddenly fists. He had begun to shake, and for a moment Cleve feared a second fit. But he
seemed, by act of will, to control the tremors, and turned his look back to his cellmate. The bruises he'd received
from Lowell had dulled to yellow-grey, but far from disappeared; his unshaven cheeks were dusted with pale-ginger
hair. Lo oking at him C leve felt an unwelcom e twinge of concern. "T ell me." Cleve said. T ell you what?" Billy
asked . "W hat hap pened at the graves."
"I felt dizzy. I fell over. The next thing I knew I was in hospital."
"That's what you told them, is it?"
"It's the truth."
"N ot the way I heard it. W hy don't you exp lain what really hap pened? I want you to trust m e."
"I do," the boy sa id. "B ut I have to keep this to m yself, see. It's between m e and him."
"You and Edgar?" Cleve asked, and Billy nodded, "A man who killed all his family but your mother?"
Billy was clearly startled that Cleve possessed this information. "Yes," he said, after consideration. "Yes, he killed
them all. H e wou ld have killed M am a too , if she had n't escape d. He wanted to w ipe the whole fam ily out. So there'd
be no heirs to carry the bad blood."
"Your blood's bad, is it?"
Billy allowed himself the slenderest of smiles. "No," he said. "I don't think so. Grandfather was wrong. Times have
changed, haven't they?"
He is mad, Cleve thought. Lightning-swift, Billy ca ught the judgement.
"I'm not insane," he said. "You tell them that. Tell Devlin and whoever else asks. Tell them I'm a lamb." The
fierceness was back in his eyes. T here was nothing lamb -like there, though Cleve forbore saying so. "T hey mustn't
move me out, Cleve. Not after getting so close. I've got business here. Important business."
"With a dead man?"
"W ith a dead m an."
W hatever new purpose he displayed for Cleve, the shutters went up when Billy got back amongst the rest of the
cons. He responded neither to the questions nor the insults bandied about; his facade of empty-eyed indifference was
flawless. C leve wa s impressed . The boy had a future as an actor, if he dec ided to forsake professio nal lunacy.
But the strain of concealing the new-found urgency in him rapidly began to tell. In a hollowness about the eyes, and
a jitteriness in his movements; in brooding and unshakeable silences. The physical deterioration was apparent to the
doctor to whom B illy continued to report; he pronounced the boy suffering from depression and acute insomnia, and
prescribed sedatives to aid sleep. These pills Billy gave to Cleve, insisting he had no need of them himself. Cleve
was gra teful. For the first time in many m onths he beg an to sleep well, unpe rturbed by the tears and sho uts of his
fellow inmates.
By day, the relationship between he and the boy, which had always been vestigial, dwindled to mere courtesy. Cleve
sensed that B illy was closing up entirely, removing himse lf from merely physical concerns.
It was not the first time he had witnessed such a pre-medicated withdrawal. His sister-in-law, Rosanna, had died of
stomach cancer three years p revious: a pro tracted and, until the last weeks, steady decline. Cleve had not been close

to her, b ut perh aps tha t very distance ha d lent him a perspective on the woman's behaviour that the rest of his family
had lacked. He had bee n startled at the systematic way she had prepared herself for death, drawing in her affections
until they touched only the most vital figures in her life -her children and her priest - and exiling all others, including
her husban d of fourteen years.
Now he saw the same dispassion and frugality in Billy. Like a man in training to cross a waterless wasteland and too
possessive of his energies to squander them in a single fruitless gesture, the boy was sinking into himself. It was
eerie; Cleve became increasingly uncomfortable sharing the twelve feet by eight of the cell with Billy. It was like
living with a man on Death Row.
The only consolation was the tranquillisers, which Billy readily charmed the doctor into continuing to supply. They
guaranteed Cleve sleep that was restful, and, for several days at least, dream less.
And then he dreamt the city.
Not the city first; first the desert. An empty expanse of blue-black sand, which stung the soles of his feet as he
walked, and was blown up by a cool wind into his nose and eyes and hair. He had been here b efore, he knew. His
dream-self recognized the vista of barren dunes, with neither tree nor habitation to break the monotony. But on
previous visits he had come with guides (or such was his half-formed belief); now he was alone, and the clouds
above his head were heavy and slate-grey, promising no sun. For what seemed hours he walked the dunes, his feet
turned bloody by the sharp sand, his body, dusted by the grains, tinged blue. As exhaustion came close to defeating
him, he saw ruins, and approached them.
It was no oasis. There was nothing in those empty streets of health or sustenance; no fruitful trees nor sparkling
fountains. Th e city was a conglome ration o f houses, or pa rts of same - sometimes entire floo rs, sometimes single
rooms - thrown down side by side in parodies of urban order. The styles were a hopeless mish-mash - fine Georgian
establishments standing beside mean tenement buildings with rooms burnt out; a house plucked from a terraced row,
perfect down to the glazed dog on the window sill, back to back with a penthouse suite. All were scarred by a rough
removal from their context: walls were cracked, offering sly glimpses into private interiors; staircases beetled
cloudward without destination; doors flapped open and closed in the wind, letting on to nowhere.
There wa s life here, C leve knew. N ot just the lizards, rats and butterflies - albinoes all - that fluttered and skipped in
front of him as he walked the forsaken streets - but human life. He sensed that every step he took was overlooked,
though he saw no sign of human prese nce; no t on his first visit at least.
On the second, his dream-self forsook the trudge across the wilderness and was delivered directly into the
necropolis, his feet, easily tutored, following the same route as he had on his first visit. The constant wind was
stronger tonight. It caught the lace curtains in this window, and a tinkling Chinese trinket hanging in that. It carried
voices too; horrid and outlandish sounds that came from some distant place far beyond the city. Hearing that
whirring and w hittering, as of insane children, he was gra teful for the streets and the ro oms, for their fam iliarity if
not for any comfort they might offer. H e had no desire to step into those interiors, voices or no ; did no t want to
discover what marked these snatches of architecture out that they should have been ripped from their roots and flung
down in this whining desolation.
Yet, once he had visited the site, his sleep ing mind went back there, night upon night; always walking, blood yfooted, seeing only the rats and the butterflies, and the black sand on each threshold, blowing into rooms and
hallways that never changed from visit to visit; that seemed, from what he could glimpse between the curtains or
through a sha ttered wall, to have be en fixed somehow at som e pivo tal moment, with a meal left uneaten on a table
set for three (the capon uncarved, the sauces steaming), or a shower left running in a bathroom in which the lamp
perp etually swung; and in a roo m that m ight have bee n a lawye r's study a lap -dog, or else a wig torn off and flung to
the floor, lying discarded on a fine carpet whose intricacies were half-devoured by sand.
Only once did he see another human being in the city: and that was Billy. It happened strangely. One night - as he
dreamed the streets - he half-stirred from sleep. Billy was awake, and standing in the middle of the cell, staring up at
the light thro ugh the windo w. It was not mo onlight, but the b oy bathed in it as if it were. H is face wa s turned up to
the window, mouth open and eyes closed. Cleve barely had time to register the trance the boy seemed to be in before
the tranquillisers drew him back into his dream. He took a fragment of reality with him however, folding the boy
into his sleeping vision. When he reached the city again, there was Billy Tait: standing on the street, his face turned
up to the louring clouds, his mouth open, his eyes closed.
The image lingered a moment only. The next, the boy was away, his heels kicking up black fans of sand. Cleve
called after him. Billy ran on however, heedless; and, with that inexplicable foreknowledge that dreams bring, Cleve
knew where the bo y was go ing. Off to the edge of the city, where the houses petered out and the d esert began. Off to
meet some friend coming in on that terrible wind, perhaps. Nothing would induce him into pursuit, yet he didn't want
to lose contact with the one fellow human he had seen in these destitute streets. He called Billy's name again, more
loudly.

This time he felt a hand on his arm, and started up in terror to find him self being jostled awake in his cell.
"It's all right," B illy said. "Y ou're dream ing."
Cleve tried to shake the city out of his head, but for several perilous seconds the dream bled into the waking world,
and looking down at the boy he saw Billy's hair lifted by a wind that did not, could not, belong in the confines of the
cell. "Y ou're dream ing," B illy said aga in. "W ake up ."
Shud dering, Cleve sat fully up on his b unk. T he city was receding - wa s almo st gone - but before he lost sight of it
entirely he felt the indisputable conviction that Billy knew what he was waking Cleve from; that they had been there
together for a few, fragile moments.
"You know, don't you?" he accused the pallid face at his side.
The boy looked bewildered. "What are you talking about?"
Cleve shook his head. The suspicion became mo re incredible with each step he took from sleep. Even so, when he
looked down at Billy's bony hand , which still clung to his arm, he half-expe cted to see flecks of that obsidian grit
beneath his finger-nails. T here w as only dirt.
The doubts linge red however, long after reason should have b ullied them into surrender. C leve found himself
watching the boy more closely from that night on, waiting for some slip of tongue or eye which would reveal the
nature of his game. Such scrutiny was a lost cause. The last traces of accessibility disappeared after that night; the
boy became - like Rosanna - an indecipherable book, letting no clue as to the nature of his secret world out from
beneath his lids. As to the dream - it was not even mentioned again. The only roundabout allusion to that night was
Billy's redoubled insistence that C leve continue to take the sedatives.
"Y ou need your sleep ," he said after coming bac k from the Infirmary with a further sup ply. "T ake them."
"Yo u need sleep too," Cleve replied, curious to see how far the boy would push the issue. "I don't need the stuff any
more."
"B ut you d o," B illy insisted, proffering the phial of cap sules. "Y ou know ho w bad the noise is."
"So meo ne said they're addictive," Cleve rep lied, not taking the pills, "I'll do w ithout."
"No," said Billy; and now Cleve sensed a level of insistence which confirmed his deepest suspicions. The boy
wanted him drugged, and had all along. "I sleep like a babe," Billy said. "Please take them. They'll only be wasted
otherwise."
Cleve shrugged. "If you're sure," he said, content - fears confirmed - to make a show of relenting.
"I'm sure."
Then thanks." H e took the phial.
Billy beamed. With that smile, in a sense, the bad times really began.
That night, Cleve answered the boy's performance with one of his own, appearing to take the tranquillisers as he
usually did, but failing to swallow them. Once lying on his bunk, face to the wall, he slipped them from his mouth,
and under his pillow. Then he pretended sleep.
Prison days both began and finished early; by 8.45 or 9.00 most of the cells in the four wings were in darkness, the
inmates locked up until dawn and left to their own devices. Tonight was quieter than most. The weeper in the next
cell but one had been transferred to D W ing; there were few other disturbances along the landing. Even without the
pill Cleve felt sleep tempting him. From the bunk below he heard practically no sound, except for the occasional
sigh. It was impossible to guess if Billy was actually asleep or not. Cleve kept his silence, occasionally stealing a
moment-long glance at the luminous face of his watch. The minutes were leaden, and he feared, as the first hours
crept by, that all too soon his imitation of sleep would become the real thing. Indeed he was turning this very
possibility around in his mind when unconsciousness overcame him.
He woke m uch later. His sleep-position seemed not to have altered. The wall was in front of him, the peeled paint
like a dim map of some nameless territory. It took him a minute or two to orient himself. There was no sound from
the bunk below. Disguising the gesture as one made in sleep, he drew his arm up within eye-range, and looked at the
pale-green d ial of his watch. It was o ne-fifty-one. S evera l hours yet until dawn. H e lay in the p osition he'd wo ken in
for a full quarter of an hour, listening for every sound in the cell, trying to locate Billy. He was loathe to roll over
and look for himself, for fear that the boy was standing in the m iddle of the ce ll as he had been the night of the visit
to the city.
The world, though benighted, was far from silent. He could hear d ull footsteps as so meb ody p aced back and fo rth in
the corresponding cell on the landing above; could hear water rushing in the pipes and the sound of a siren on the
Caledon ian Ro ad. W hat he couldn't hear was Billy. N ot a breath o f the boy.
Ano ther qu arter of an hour passed, and C leve co uld feel the familiar torpo r closing in to reclaim him ; if he lay still
much longer he would fall asleep again, and the next thing he'd know it would be morning. If he was going to learn
anything, he had to roll over and look. Wisest, he decided, not to attempt to move surreptitiously, but to turn over as

naturally as possible. This he did, muttering to himself, as if in sleep, to add weight to the illusion. Once he had
turned completely, and positioned his hand beside his face to shield his spying, he cautiously open ed his eyes.
The cell seemed darker than it had the night he had seen Billy with his face up to the window. As to the boy, he was
not visible. Cleve op ened his eyes a little wider and scanned the cell as best he could from betwe en his fingers.
There was something amiss, but he couldn't quite work out what it was. He lay there for several minutes, waiting for
his eyes to becom e accustomed to the murk. They didn't. The scene in front of him remained unclear, like a painting
so encrusted with dirt and varnish its depths refuse the inv estigating eye. Yet he knew - knew - that the shado ws in
the corners of the cell, and on the opposite wall, were not empty. He wanted to end the anticipation that was making
his heart thump, wanted to raise his head from the peb ble-filled pillow and call B illy out of hiding. But good sense
counselled otherwise. Instead he lay still, and sweated, and watched.
And now he be gan to realize what was wrong with the scene before him. The concealing shadows fell where no
shadows belonged; they spread across the hall where the feeble light from the window should have been falling.
Som ehow, betw een window and wall, that light ha d been cho ked and d evoured. Cleve closed his eyes to give his
befuddled mind a chance to rationalize and reject this conclusion. W hen he opened them again his heart lurched. The
shadow, far from losing potency, had grown a little.
He had never bee n afraid like this before; never felt a coldness in his innards akin to the chill that found him now. It
was all he could do to keep his breath even, and his hands where they lay. His instinct was to wrap himself up and
hide his face like a child. Two thoughts kept him from doing so. One was that the slightest movement might draw
unwelcome attention to him. The other, that Billy was som ewhere in the cell, and perhaps as threatened by this
living darkness as he.
And then, from the bunk below, the boy sp oke. His vo ice was soft, so as not to w ake his sleeping cell-ma te
presumably. It was also eerily intimate. Cleve entertained no thought that Billy was talking in his sleep; the time for
wilful self-deception was long past. The boy was addressing the darkness; of that unpalatable fact there could be no
dou bt.
". . . it hurts . . ." he said, with a faint note of accusation,". . . you didn't tell me ho w much it hurts . . ."
Was it Cleve's imagination, or did the wraith of shadows bloom a little in response, like a squid's ink in water? He
was horribly afraid. T he boy wa s speaking aga in. His voice was so low Cleve could ba rely catch the word s.
". . . it must be soo n . . ." he said, with quiet urgency, ". . . I'm no t afraid. N ot afraid ."
Again, the shadow shifted. T his time, when C leve looked into its heart, he mad e som e sense of the chimerical form it
embraced. His throat shook; a cry lodged behind his tongue, hot to be shouted.
". . . all you can teach me . . ." Billy was saying,". . . quickly . . ." The wo rds came and went; but Cleve barely heard
them. His attention was on the curtain of shadow, and the figure - stitched from darkness - that moved in its folds. It
was not an illusion. There was a man there: or rather a crude copy of one, its substance tenuous, its outline
deteriorating all the time, and b eing hauled b ack into som e semblance of huma nity again only with the greatest
effort. Of the visitor's features Cleve could see little, but enough to sense deformities paraded like virtues: a face
resembling a plate of rotted fruit, pulpy and peeling, swelling here with a nest of flies, and there suddenly fallen
away to a pestilent core. Ho w could the boy b ring himself to co nverse so easily with such a thing? And yet,
putresence notwithstanding, there was a bitter dignity in the bearing of the creature, in the anguish of its eyes, and
the toothless O of its maw.
Sudd enly, Billy stoo d up. The abrupt mo veme nt, after so m any hushed w ords, almost unleashed the cry fro m C leve's
throat. He swallowed it, with difficulty, and closed his eyes down to a slit, staring through the bars of his lashes at
what ha ppe ned next.
Billy was talking again, but now the voice was too low to allow for eavesdropping. He stepped towards the shadow,
his body blo cking m uch of the figure o n the oppo site wall. T he cell was no more than two or three strid es wide, but,
by some mellowing of physics, the boy seemed to take five, six, seven steps away from the bunk. Cleve's eyes
widened: he knew he was not being watched. The shadow and its acolyte had business between them: it occupied
their attention utterly.
Billy's figure was smaller than seemed po ssible within the co nfines of the cell, as if he had steppe d through the wall
and into some other province. And only now, with his eyes wide, did Cleve recognize that place. The darkness from
which Billy's visitor was made was cloud-shadow and dust; behind him, barely visible in the bewitched murk, but
recognizable to any who had been there, was the city of Cleve's dream s.
Billy had reached his master. The creature towered above him, tattered and spindly, but aching with power. Cleve
didn't know how or why the boy had gone to it, and he feared for Billy's safety now that he had, but fear for his own
safety shackled him to the bunk. He realized in that moment that he had never loved anyone, man or wom an,
sufficiently to pursue them into the shadow of that shadow. The thought brought a terrible sense of isolation,
knowing that same instant that none, seeing him walk to his damnation, would take a single step to claim him from

the brink. Lost souls both; he and the boy.
Now Billy's lord was lifting his swollen head, and the incessant wind in those blue streets was rousing his horsemane into furious life. On the wind, the same voices Cleve had heard carried before, the cries of mad children,
somewhere between tears and howls. As if encouraged by these voices, the entity reached out towards Billy and
emb raced him, wra pping the boy round in vapo ur. Billy did no t struggle in this emb race, b ut rather returned it.
Cleve, unable to watch this horrid intimacy, closed his eyes against it, and when -seconds? minutes?, later - he
opened them again, the encounter seemed to be over. The shadow-thing was blowing apart, relinquishing its slender
claim to cohe rence . It fragme nted, p ieces o f its tattered anatom y flying off into the streets like litter b efore wind. Its
departure seemed to signal the dispersal of the entire scene; the streets and houses were already being devoured by
dust and distance. E ven before the last of the shadow's scraps had been wafted ou t of sight the city was lost to sight.
Cleve was pleased to be shut of it. Reality, grim as it was, was preferable to that desolation. Brick by painted brick
the wall was asserting itself again, and Billy, delivered from his master's arms, was back in the solid geometry of the
cell, staring up at the light through the window.
Cleve did not sleep again that night. Indeed he wondered , lying on his unyielding mattress and staring up at the
stalactites of paint depending from the ceiling, whether he could ever find safety in sleep again.
Sunligh t was a showm an. It threw its brightne ss down with such flamboya nce, ea ger as any tinsel-me rchant to
dazzle and distract. But beneath the gleaming surface it illuminated was another state; one that sunlight - ever the
crowd-pleaser - conspired to conceal. It was vile and desperate, that condition. Most, blinded by sight, never even
glimpsed it. But Cleve knew the state of sunlessness now; had even walked it, in dreams; and though he mourned the
loss of his innocence , he knew he co uld never retrace his steps back into light's hall of mirrors.
He tried his d amnedest to keep this change in him from B illy; the last thing he wanted was for the bo y to suspect his
eavesdropping. But concealment was well-nigh impossible. Though the following day Cleve made every show of
norm ality he co uld co ntrive, he could not qu ite cover his unease. It slipped out witho ut his being able to co ntrol it,
like swea t from his pores. And the b oy knew, no d oubt of it, he knew. Nor was he slow to give voice to his
suspicions. When, following the afternoon's W orkshop, they returned to their cell, Billy was quick to come to the
point.
"What's wrong with you today?"
Cleve busied himself with re-making his bed, afraid even to glance at Billy. "Nothing's wrong," he said. "I don't feel
particularly well, that's all."
"Yo u have a bad night?" the boy enquired. Cleve could feel Billy's eyes boring into his back.
"N o," he said, p acing his denial so that it did n't come too q uickly. "I took your p ills, like always."
"G ood ."
The exchange faltered, and Cleve was allowed to finish his bedmaking in silence. The business could only be
extend ed so long, ho wever. W hen he turned from the bunk, job done, he found B illy sitting at the sma ll table, with
one of Cleve's books open in his lap. He casually flicked through the volume, all sign of his previous suspicion
vanished. Cleve knew better than to trust to mere appearances however.
"Why'd you read these things?" the boy asked.
"Passes the time," Cleve replied, undoing all his labours by clambering up on to the top bunk and stretching out
there.
"N o. I do n't mean w hy do you read books? I mean, why read these books? All this stuff about sin."
Cleve only half-heard the question. Lying there on the bunk reminded him all too acutely of how the night had been.
Reminded him too that darkness was even now crawling up the side of the world again. At that thought his stomach
seemed to aspire to his thro at.
"Did you hear me?" the boy asked.
Cleve murmured that he had.
"Well, why then; why the books? About damnation and all?"
"No body else takes them out of the library," Cleve replied, having difficulty shaping thoughts to speak when the
others, unspoken, were so much more demanding.
"You don't believe it then?"
"N o," he replied. "N o; I do n't believe a word of it."
The bo y kept his silence a while. Though Cleve wasn't looking at him, he could hear Billy turning page. Then,
another question, but spoken more q uietly; a confession.
"Do you ever get afraid?
The enq uiry startled Cleve from his trance. The con versation had cha nged back from talk of reading-m atter to

something altogether more pertinent. Why did Billy ask about fear, unless he too was afraid?
"What have I got to be scared of?" Cleve asked.
From the corner of his eye he cau ght the boy shrugging sligh tly before replying. "T hings that happ en," he said, his
voice soulless. "T hings you can't control."
"Y es," Cleve replied, not certain of where this excha nge was lead ing. "Y es, of co urse. Some times I'm scared."
"What do you do then?" Billy asked.
"Nothing to do, is there?" Cleve said. His voice was as hushed as Billy's. "I gave up praying the morning my father
died."
He heard the soft pat as B illy closed the bo ok, and incline d his head sufficiently to catch sight of the boy. Billy could
not entirely conceal his agitation. He is afraid, Cleve saw; he doesn't want the night to come any more than I do. He
found the thought of their shared fear reassuring. Perhaps the boy didn't entirely belong to the shadow; perhaps he
could even cajole Billy into pointing their route out of this spiralling nightmare.
He sat upright, his head within inches of the cell ceiling. Billy looked up from his meditations, his face a pallid oval
of twitching muscle. Now was the time to speak, Cleve knew; now, before the lights were switched out along the
landings, and all the cells consigned to shadows. T here w ould be no time then for exp lanations. The bo y would
already be half lost to the city, and beyond persuasion.
"I have dreams," Cleve said. Billy said nothing, but simply stared back, ho llow-eyed." -I d ream a city."
The boy didn't flinch. He clearly wasn't going to volunteer elucidatio n; he wo uld have to b e bullied into it.
"Do you know what I'm talking about?"
Billy shook his head. "No," he said, lightly, "I never dream."
"Everybody dreams."
"T hen I just don't remember the m."
"I remember mine," Cleve said. He was determined, now that he'd broached the subject, not to let Billy squirm free.
"And you're there. Y ou're in that city."
Now the boy flinched; only a treacherous lash, but enough to reassure Cleve that he wasn't wasting his breath. "What
is that place, Billy?" he asked.
"Ho w should I know?" the boy returned, about to laugh, then disgarding the attempt. "I don't know, do I? T hey're
your d ream s."
Before Cleve could reply he heard the voice of one of the officers as he moved along the row of cells, advising the
men to bed do wn for the night. V ery soo n, the lights would be extinguished and he wo uld be locked up in this
narrow ce ll for ten hours. W ith Billy; and phantom s "Last night - " he said, fearful of me ntioning what he'd heard and se en witho ut due prep aration, but m ore fearful still
of facing another night on the borde rs of the city, alone in darkness. "Last night I saw -" He faltered. W hy wo uldn 't
the words co me? "Saw - "
"Saw what?" the boy demanded, his face intractable; whatever murmur of apprehension there had been in it had now
vanished. Perhaps he too had heard the officer's advance, and known that there was nothing to be done; no way of
staying the night's advance. "What did you see? Billy insisted. Cleve sighed. "My mother," he replied.
The boy betrayed his relief only in the tenuous smile that crept acro ss his lips.
"Yes ... I saw my mother. Large as life."
"And it upset you, d id it?" Billy asked.
"So metimes dre ams d o."
The officer had reached B. 3. 20. "Lights out in two minutes," he said as he passed.
"You should take some more of those pills," Billy advised, putting down the book and crossing to his bunk. "Then
you'd be like me. No dreams."
Cleve had lost. He, the arc h-bluffer, had been o ut-bluffed by the b oy, and now had to take the consequences. He lay,
facing the ceiling, counting off the seconds until the light went out, while below the boy undressed and slipped
between the sheets.
There was still time to jump up and call the officer back; time to beat his head against the door until somebody
came. But what would he say, to justify his histrionics? That he had bad dreams?; who didn't? That he was afraid of
the dark?; who wasn't? They would laugh in his face and tell him to go back to bed, leaving him with all camouflage
blown, and the boy and his master waiting at the wall. There was no safety in such tactics.
Nor in prayer either. He had told Billy the truth, about his giving up God when his prayers for his father's life had
gone unanswered. Of such divine neglect was aetheism made; belief could not be rekindled now, however profound
his terror.
Though ts of his father led inevitably to thoughts of childhood; few other subjects, if any, could have eng rossed his
mind sufficiently to steal him from his fears but this. W hen the lights were finally extinguished, his frightened mind

took refuge in memories. His heart-rate slowed; his fingers ceased to tremble, and eventually, without his being the
least aware of it, sleep stole him.
The distractions available to his conscious mind were not available to his unconscious. Once asleep, fond
recollection was banished; childhood memories became a thing of the past, and he was back, bloody-footed, in that
terrible city.
Or rather, on its borders. For tonight he did not follow the familiar route past the Georgian house and its attendant
tenem ents, but walked instead to the outskirts of the city, where the wind was stronger tha n ever, and the voices it
carried clear. Though he exp ected with every step he took to see Billy and his dark com panion, he saw no bod y. Only
butterflies acco mpa nied him along the p ath, luminous as his watch-face. T hey settled on his shoulders and his hair
like confetti, then fluttered off again.
He reached the edge of the city without incident and stood, scanning the desert. The clouds, solid as ever, moved
overhead with the majesty of juggernauts. The voices seemed closer tonight, he thought, and the passions they
expressed less distressing than he had found them previously. W hether the mellowing was in them or in his respo nse
to them he couldn't be certain.
And then, as he watched the dunes and the sky, mesmerized by their blankness, he heard a sound and glanced over
his shoulder to see a smiling man, dressed in what was surely his Sunday finery, walking out of the city towards him.
He was carrying a knife; the blood on it, and on his hand and shirt-front, was wet. Even in his dream-state, and
immune, Cleve was intimidated by the sight and stepped back - a word of self-defence on his lips. The smiling man
seemed not to see him however, but advanced past Cleve and out into the desert, dropping the blade as he crossed
some invisible bounda ry. Only now d id Cleve see that others had done the sam e, and that the gro und at the city limit
was littered with lethal keepsakes - knives, ropes (even a human hand, lopped off at the wrist) - most of which were
all but buried.
The wind was bringing the voices again: tatters of senseless songs and half-finished laughter. He looked up from the
sand. The exiled man had gone out a hundred yards from the city and was now standing on the top of one of the
dunes, apparently waiting. The voices were becoming louder all the time. Cleve was suddenly nervous. Whenever he
had been here in the city, and heard this cacophony, the picture he had conjured of its originators had made his blood
run co ld. Co uld he now stand and wa it for the banshees to ap pear? Curiosity wa s discretion's better. He glued his
eyes to the ridge over which they would co me, his heart thum ping, un able to look away. T he ma n in the Sunda y suit
had begun to take his jacket off. He discarded it, and began to loosen his tie.
And now Cleve thought he saw something in the dunes, and the noise rose to an ecstatic howl of welcome. He
stared, defying his nerves to b etray him, determined to look this horror in its many faces Suddenly, above the d in of their m usic, som ebo dy was screaming; a man's vo ice, but high-pitch ed, gelded with
terror. It did not come from here in the dream-city, but from that other fiction he occupied, the name of which he
couldn't quite remember. He p ressed his attention back to the dunes, determined not to be denied the sight of the
reunion about to take place in front of him. The scream in that nameless elsewhere mounted to a throat-breaking
height, and stoppe d. But now an alarm be ll was ringing in its place, more insistent than ever. Cleve co uld feel his
dream slipping.
"N o . . ." he murm ured,". . . let me se e . . ."
The dunes were mo ving. B ut so wa s his consciousness - out of the city and back toward s his cell. H is protests
brought him no co ncessio n. The de sert faded, the city too. H e opened his eyes. T he lights in the cell were still off:
the alarm bell was ringing. There were shouts in cells on the land ings above and below, and the sound of officers"
voices, raised in a co nfusion of enquiries and dem ands.
He lay on his bunk a moment, hoping, even now, to be returned into the enclave of his dream. But no; the alarm was
too shrill, the mounting hysteria in the cells around too compelling. He conceded defeat and sat up, wide awake.
"W hat's going on?" he sa id to B illy.
The bo y was not standing in his place by the wall. Asleep, for once, despite the din.
"B illy?
Cleve leaned over the edge of his bunk, and peered into the space below. It was empty. The sheets and blankets had
been thrown back.
Cleve jumped do wn from his bunk. The entire contents of the cell could be taken at two glances, there was nowhere
to hide. The boy was not to be seen. Had he been spirited away while Cleve slept? It was not unheard of; this was
the ghost train of which D evlin had warned: the unexp lained remo val of difficult prisoners to other establishments.
Cleve had never heard of this happening at night, but there was a first time for everything.
He crossed to the door to see if he could make some sense of the shouting outside, but it defied interpretation. The
likeliest explanation was a fight, he suspected: two cons who could no longer bear the idea of another hour in the
same space. He tried to work out where the initial scream had com e from, to his right or left, above or below; but the

dream had confound ed all direction.
As he stood at the do or, ho ping an officer might pass by, he felt a change in the air. It was so subtle he scarcely
registere d it at first. Only when he raised his hand to wipe sleep fro m his eye s did he realize that his arms were solid
gooseflesh.
From behind him he now heard the sound of breathing, or a ragged parody of same.
He mo uthed the word "Billy" but didn't speak it. The gooseflesh had found his spine; now he began to shake. The
cell wasn't empty after all; there was somebody in the tiny space with him.
He screwed his courage tight, and forced himself to turn around. The cell was darker than it had been when he woke;
the air was a teasing veil. But B illy was not in the cell; nobody was.
And then the noise came again, and drew Cleve's attention to the bottom bunk. The space was pitch-black, a shadow
- like that on the wall - too profound and to o volatile to have natural origins. Out of it, a croa king attem pt at breath
that migh t have b een the last moments of an asthmatic. He realized that the murk in the cell had its source there - in
the narrow space of Billy's bed; the shadow bled onto the floor and curled up like fog on to the top of the bunk.
Cleve's supply of fear was not inexhaustible. In the past several days he had used it up in dreams and waking
dreams; he'd sweated, he'd frozen, he'd lived on the edge of sane experience and survived. Now, though his body
still insisted on gooseflesh, his mind was not moved to panic. He felt cooler than he ever had; whipped by recent
events into a new impartiality. He would not cower. He would not cover his eyes and pray for morning, because if he
did o ne day he wo uld wake to find himself d ead and he'd neve r know the nature of this m ystery.
He took a deep breath, and approached the bunk. It had begun to shake. The shrouded occupant in the lower tier was
mov ing about vio lently.
"Billy," Cleve said.
The shadow moved. It pooled around his feet; it rolled up into his face, smelling of rain on stone, cold and
comfortless.
He was standing no more than a yard from the bunk, and still he could make nothing out; the shadow defied him.
Not to be denied sight, he reached towards the bed. At his solicitation the veil divided like smoke, and the shape that
thrashed on the mattress made itself ap parent.
It was Billy, of course; and yet not. A lost Billy, perhaps, or one to come. If so, Cleve wanted no part of a future that
could breed such trauma. There, on the lower bunk, lay a dark, wretched shape, still solidifying as Cleve watched,
knitting itself together from the shadows. There was something of a rabid fox in its incandescent eyes, in its arsenal
of needle-teeth; something of an upturned insect in the way it was half curled upon itself, its back more shell than
flesh and more nightm are than either. N o part of it was fixed. W hateve r figuration it had (perhaps it had ma ny)
Cleve was watching that status dissolve. T he teeth were growing yet longer, and in so doing m ore insubstantial, their
matter extruded to the point of frailty, then dispersed like mist; its hooked limbs, pedalling the air, were also growing
paltry. B eneath the chaos he saw the ghost of Billy Tait, mouth o pen and b abb ling ago nies, striving to make itself
known. He wanted to reach into the maelstrom and snatch the boy out, but he sensed that the process he was
watching had its o wn mo me ntum and it might be fatal to intervene. All he could do was stand and w atch as Billy's
thin white limbs and heaving abdomen writhed to slough off this dire anatomy. The luminous eyes were almost the
last to go, spilling out from their sockets on myriad threads and flying off into black vapour.
At last, he saw Billy's face, truant clues to its former condition still flickering across it. And then, even these were
dispe rsed, the shad ows gone, and o nly Billy wa s lying on the bunk, naked and heaving with the exertion of his
anguish. He looked at Cleve, his face innocent of expression. Cleve remembered how the boy had comp lained to the
creature from the city.". . . it hurts . . ." he'd said, hadn't he?,". . . you didn't tell me how much it hurts. . .". It was the
observab le truth. T he bo y's body w as a wasteland of swea t and b one; a more unappe tising sight was scarcely
imaginable. B ut human; at least that.
Billy opened his mouth. His lips were ruddy and slick, as if he were wearing lipstick.
"Now . . ." he said, trying to speak between painful breaths. ". . . now what shall we do?"
The act of speak ing seem ed too much for him. He made a gagging sound in the back of his throat, and pressed his
hand to his mo uth. Cleve mo ved aside a s Billy stood up and stumbled across to the bucket in the corner of the cell,
kept there for their night-wastes. He failed to reach it before nausea overtook him; fluid splashed between his fingers
and hit the floor. Cleve looked away as Billy threw up, p reparing himself for the stench he would have to tolerate
until slopping-out time the following morning. It was not the smell of vomit that filled the cell, however, but
something sweeter and more cloying.
Mystified, Cleve looked back towards the figure crouching in the corner. On the floor between his feet were splashes
of dark fluid; rivulets of the same ran down his bare legs. Even in the gloom of the cell, it was unmistakably blood.
In the most well-ordered of prisons violence could - and inevitably did - erupt without warning. The relationship of

two cons, incarcerated together for sixteen hours out of every twenty-four, was an unpredictable thing. But as far as
had been apparent to either prisoners or officers there had b een no bad bloo d between Lowell and Nayler; nor, until
that scream began, had there been a sound from their cell: no argument, no raised voices. What had induced Nayler
to spontaneously attack and slaughter his cell-mate, and then inflict devastating wounds upon himself, was a subject
for debate in dining-hall and exercise yard alike. The why of the problem, however, took second place to the how.
The rumours describing the condition of Lowell's body when found defied the imagination; even amongst men
inured against casual brutality the descriptions were met with shock. Lowell had not been much liked; he had been a
bully and a cheat. B ut nothing he'd done deserved such m utilation. T he ma n had been rippe d op en: his eyes put out,
his genitals torn off. Nayler, the only possible antagonist, had then contrived to open up his own belly. He was now
in an Intensive C are U nit; the pro gnosis was no t hopeful.
It was easy, with such a buzz of outrage going about the Wing, for Cleve to spend the day all but unnoticed. He too
had a story to tell: but who would believe it? He barely believed it himself. In fact on and off through the day - when
the images cam e back to him afresh -he asked himself if he were entirely sane. But then sanity was a m ovable feast
wasn't it?; one ma n's madness might be another's politics. A ll he knew for ce rtain was that he had seen B illy Tait
transform. He clung to that certainty with a tenaciousness born of near-despair. If he ceased to believe the evidence
of his ow n eyes, he had no defence left to hold the darkness at bay.
After ablutions and breakfast, the entire Wing was confined to cells; workshops, recreation - any activity which
required movement around the landings - was cancelled while Lowell's cell was photographed and examined, then
swabbed out. Following breakfast, Billy slept through the morning; a state more akin to coma than sleep, such was
its profundity. When he awo ke for lunch he wa s brighter and m ore out-going than Cleve had seen him in we eks.
There was no sign beneath the vacuous chatter that he knew what had happened the previous night. In the afternoon
Cleve faced him with the truth.
"Y ou killed L ow ell," he said. T here was no p oint in trying to p retend ignorance any longer; if the boy didn't
remember now wha t he'd done, he would surely recall in time. And with that memory, how long before he
remembered that Cleve had watched him transform? Better to confess it now. "I saw you," Cleve said, "I saw you
change. . ."
Billy didn't seem much disturbed b y these revelations.
"Yes," he said. "I killed Lowell. Do you blame me?" The q uestion, begging a hundred others, was put lightly, as a
matter of mild interest, no more.
"W hat happened to you?" C leve said. "I saw you - there - " he pointed, appalled at the memory, at the lower bunk,
"you weren 't human."
"I didn't mean you to see," the boy replied . "I gave you the pills, did n't I? You sho uldn't have spied ."
"And the night before . . ." C leve said, "I was awa ke then too."
The boy blinked like a bem used bird, head slightly cocked. "You really have been stupid," he said. "So stupid."
"W hether I like it or no t, I'm not out of this," C leve said, "I have d ream s."
"Oh, yes." Now a frown marred the porcelain brow. "Yes. You dream the city, don't you?"
"What is that place, Billy?"
"I rea d som ewhere: the dead have highways. Yo u ever hear tha t? W ell. . . they have cities too."
"The dead? You mean it's some kind of ghost town?"
"I never wa nted yo u to be com e involved. Y ou've been b etter to m e than m ost here. But I told yo u, I cam e to
Pentonville to do b usiness."
"W ith Tait."
That's right."
Cleve wanted to laugh; what he was being told - a city of the dead? - only heaped nonsense upon nonsense. And yet
his exasperated reason had not sniffed out one explanation more plausible.
"My grandfather killed his children," Billy said, "because he didn't want to pass his condition on to another
generation. He learned late, you see. He didn't realize, until he had a wife and children, that he wasn't like most men.
He was special. But he didn't want the skills he'd been given; and he didn't want his children to survive with that
same power in their blood. He would have killed himself, and finished the job, but that my mother escaped. Before
he co uld find her and kill her too, he was arrested."
"And hanged . And buried ."
"H anged and buried ; but not lost. No bod y's lost, Cleve. Not ever."
"Y ou came he re to find him."
"M ore tha n find him : make him help me. I knew from the age of ten what I was capable of. Not quite co nsciously;
but I had an inkling. An d I was afraid. Of co urse I was afraid : it was a terrib le mystery."

"This mutation: you've always done it?"
"No. Only known I was capable of it. I came here to make my grandfather tutor me, make him show me how. Even
now . . ." he loo ked dow n at his wasted arms,". . . with him teaching m e ... the pain is almo st unbearable."
"Why do it then?"
The boy looked at Cleve incredulously. "To be not myself; to be smoke and shadow. To be something terrible." He
seemed genuinely puzzled by Cleve's unwillingness. "Wouldn't you do the same?"
Cleve shook his head.
"W hat you beca me last night was repellent."
Billy nodded. "That's what my grandfather thought. At his trial he called himself an abomination. Not that they knew
what he was talking abo ut of course, but that's what he said. H e stood up and sa id: "I am Satan's excre ment - "."
Billy smiled at the thought. " " - for God's sake hang me and burn me." He's changed his mind since then. The
century's getting old and stale; it need s new tribe s." He loo ked at Cleve intently. "D on't be afra id," he said. "I won 't
hurt you, unless you try to tell tales. You won't do that, will you?"
"W hat could I say that would sound like sanity?" Cleve returned mild ly. "No; I wo n't tell tales."
"G ood . And in a little while I'll be gone; and yo u'll be gone. And you can forget."
"I doub t it."
"Eve n the dream s will stop, when I'm not here. You only share them because you have some mild talents as a
sensitive. T rust me. There's nothing to be afraid of."
The city -"
"What about it?"
"W here are its citizens? I never see anybody. No; that's not quite true. I saw one. A man with a knife. . . going out
into the d esert. . ."
"I can't help you. I go as a visitor myself. All I know is what my grandfather tells me: that it's a city occupied by
dead sou ls. W hateve r you've seen there, forget about it. You don't belong there. You're not dead yet."
W as it wise to believe always what the dead told you?; were they purged of all deceit by the act of dying, and
delivered into their new state like saints? C leve co uld no t believe such na ivete. M ore likely they took their talents
with them, good and bad, and used them as best they could. There would be shoemakers in paradise, wouldn't there?;
foolish to think they'd forgotten how to sew leather.
So perhaps Edgar Tait lied about the city. There was more to that place than Billy knew. What about the voices on
the wind?, the man with the knife, dropping it amongst a litter of weapons before moving off to God alone knew
where ? W hat ritual was that?
No w - with the fea r used up, and no untainted reality left to cling to, Cleve saw no reason not to go to the city
willingly. What could be there, in those dusty streets, that was worse than what he had seen in the bunk below him,
or what had happ ened to Lowell and Nayler? B eside such atrocities the city was a haven . There wa s a serenity in its
empty thoroughfares and plazas; a sense Cleve had there that all action was over, all rage and distress finished with;
that these interiors (with the bath running and the cup brimming) had seen the worst, and were now content to sit out
the millennium. W hen that night brought sleep, and the city ope ned up in front of him, he went into it not as a
frightened ma n astray in hostile territo ry, but as a visitor co ntent to relax a w hile in a place he knew too well to
become lost in, but not well enough to b e weary of.
As if in response to this new-found ease, the city opened itself to him. Wandering the streets, feet bloody as ever, he
found the doors open wide, the curtains at the windows drawn back. He did not disparage the invitation they offered,
but went to look more closely at the houses and tenements. On closer inspection he found them not the paradigms of
domestic calm he'd first taken them for. In each he discovered some sign of violence recently done. In one, perhaps
no more than an overturned chair, or a mark on the floor where a heel had slid in a spot of blood; in others, the
manifestations were more obvious. A hammer, its claw clotted, had been left on a table laid with newspapers. There
was a ro om w ith its floorb oard s ripped up , and b lack plastic parcels, susp iciously slick , laid beside the hole. In one, a
mirror had been shattered; in ano ther, a set of false teeth left besid e a hea rth in which a fire flared and spat.
They were murder scenes, all of them. The victims had gone - to other cities, perhaps, full of slaughtered children
and murdered friends - leaving these tableaux fixed forever in the breathless moments that followed the crime. Cleve
walked down the streets, the perfect voyeur, and peered into scene after scene, reconstructing in his mind's eye the
hours that had preceded the studied stillness of each room. Here a child had died: its cot was overturned; here
someone had been murdered in their bed, the pillow soaked in blood, the axe on the carpet. Was this damnation
then?; the killers obliged to wait out some portion of eternity (all of it, perhaps) in the room they'd murdered in?
Of the malefactors themselves he saw nothing, though logic implied that they must be close by. Was it that they had
the po wer of invisibility to keep themselves from the prying eyes o f touring d ream ers like him self?; or did a time in

this nowhere tra nsform them, so that they we re no longer flesh and bloo d, but became p art of their cell: a chair, a
china d oll?
Then he remem bered the man at the perimeter, who'd come in his fine suit, bloody-handed, and walked out into the
desert. He had not been invisible.
"W here are you?" he said, standing on the threshold of a mean room, with an open oven, and utensils in the sink,
water running on them. "S how yourself."
A movem ent caught his eye and he glanced across to the door. There was a man standing there. He had b een there
all along, Cleve realized, but so still, and so perfectly a part of this room, that he had not been visible until he moved
his eyes and looked Cleve's way. He felt a twinge of unease, thinking that each ro om he had pee red into had , most
likely, contained one or more killers, each similarly camouflaged by statis. The man, knowing he'd been seen,
stepped out of hiding. He was in late middle-age, and had cut himself that morning as he shaved.
"W ho are you? " he sa id. "I've se en you before. W alking b y."
He spok e softly and sadly; an unlikely killer, Cleve thought.
"Just a visitor," he told the man.
"T here are no visitors, here," he replied , "only prospective citizens."
Cleve frowned, trying to work out what the man meant. But his dream-mind was sluggish, and before he could solve
the riddle of the ma n's words there were o thers.
"D o I kno w you? " the m an asked. "I find I forget mo re and more. That's no use , is it? If I forget I'll never leave, will
I?"
"Leave?" Cleve repeated.
"Make an exchange," the man said, re-aligning his toupe.
"And go where?"
"B ack. D o it over."
Now he approached Cleve across the room. He stretched out his hands, palms up; they were blistered.
"Y ou can help me," he said, "I can make a dea l with the best of them ."
"I don't understand you."
The man clearly thought he was bluffing. His upper lip, which boasted a dyed black moustache, curled. "Yes you
do," he said. "You understand perfectly. Y ou just want to sell yourself, the way everybody d oes. H ighest bidder, is
it? What are you, an assassin?"
Cleve shook his head. "I'm just dreaming," he replied.
The man's fit of pique subsided. "Be a friend," he said. "I've got no influence; not like some. Some of them, you
know, they com e here and they're out again in a matter of hours. T hey're professionals. Th ey make arra ngemen ts.
But me? W ith me it was a crime of passion. I didn't come prepared. I'll stay here 'til I can make a deal. Please be a
friend."
"I can't help you," Cleve said, not even certain of what the man was requesting.
The killer no dde d. "O f course not," he said, "I did n't expect. . ."
He turned from Cleve and mo ved to the oven. Heat flared up from it and made a mirage of the hob. Casually, he put
one of his blistered palms on the door and closed it; almost as soon as he had done so it creaked open again. "Do you
know just how appetising it is; the smell of cooking flesh?" he said, as he returned to the oven door and attempted to
close it a second time. "Can anybody blame me? Really?"
Cleve left him to his ramblings; if there was sense there it was probably not worth his labouring over. The talk of
exchanges and of escape from the city: it defied Cleve's comprehension.
He wandered on, tired now of peering into the houses. He'd seen all he wanted to see. Surely morning was close, and
the bell would ring on the landing. Perhaps he should even wake himself, he thought, and be done with this tour for
the night.
As the thought occurred, he saw the girl. She was no more than six or seven years old, and she was standing at the
next intersection. This was no killer, surely. He started towards her. She, either out of shyness or some less benign
motive, turned to her right and ran off. Cleve fo llowed . By the time he had reached the intersection she was already a
long way down the next street; again he gave chase. As dreams would have such pursuits, the laws of physics did not
pertain equally to pursuer and pursued. The girl seemed to move easily, while Cleve struggled against air as thick as
treacle. He did not give up, however, but pressed on wherever the girl led. He was soon a good distance from any
location he recognized in a warren of yards and alleyways - all, he supposed, scenes of blood-letting. Unlike the
main thoroughfares, this ghetto contained few entire spaces, only snatches of geography: a grass verge, more red
than gre en; a piece o f scaffolding, with a noose dep ending from it; a pile of ea rth. And now, sim ply, a wall.
The girl had led him into a cul-de-sac; she herself had disappeared however, leaving him facing a plain brick wall,
much weathered, with a narrow window in it. He approached: this was clearly what he'd been led here to see. He

peered through the reinfo rced glass, dirtied on his side b y an acc umulation of b ird-dropp ings, and found himself
staring into one o f the cells at P entonville. His sto mach flipped over. W hat kind of gam e was this; led out of a cell
and into this dream -city, only to b e led b ack into prison? B ut a few seconds of study told him that it wa s not his cell.
It was Lowell and Nayler's. Theirs were the pictures sellotaped to the grey brick, theirs the blood spread over floor
and wall and bunk and door. This was another murder-scene.
"M y Go d Alm ighty," he murm ured. "Billy . . ."
He turned away fro m the wall. In the sand at his feet lizard s were mating; the wind that found its way into this
backwater brought butterflies. As he watched them dance, the bell rang in B Wing, and it was morning.
It was a trap. Its me chanism was by no means clear to Cleve - but he had no doubt of its purp ose. B illy would go to
the city; soon. The cell in which he had comm itted murder already awaited him, and of all the wretched places Cleve
had seen in that assem blage of charnel-houses surely the tiny, blo od-d renched ce ll was the worst.
The boy could not kno w what was planned for him; his grand father ha d lied about the city by exclusio n, failing to
tell Billy what special qualifications were required to exist there. And why? Cleve returned to the oblique
conversation he'd had w ith the man in the kitchen. T hat talk of exchanges, o f deal-making, o f going b ack. E dgar Ta it
had regretted his sins, hadn't he?; he'd decided, as the years passed, that he was not the Devil's excrement, that to be
returned into the world would not be so bad an idea. B illy was somehow an instrument in that return.
"M y grandfather doesn't like you," the boy said, when they were locked up again after lunch. For the second
consecutive day all recreation and workshop activities had been cancelled, while a cell-by-cell enquiry was
undertaken regarding L owell, and - as of the early hou rs of that day - Nayler's deaths.
"Does he not?" Cleve said. "And why?"
"Says you're too inquisitive. In the city."
Cleve was sitting on the top b unk; B illy on the chair against the oppo site wall. T he bo y's eyes were bloo dsho t; a
small, but constant, tremor had taken over his body.
"Y ou're going to die," Cleve said. W hat other way to state that fact was there, but b aldly? "I saw ... in the city . . ."
Billy shook his head. "Sometimes you talk like a crazyman. My grandfather says I shouldn't trust you."
"H e's afraid of me, that's why."
Billy laughed derisively. It was an ugly sound, learned, Cleve guessed, from Grandfather Tait. "He's afraid of noone," Billy retorted.
" - afraid of what I'll see. Of what I'll tell you."
"N o," said the boy, with ab solute conviction.
"He told you to kill Lowell, didn't he?"
Billy's head jerked up. "Why'd you say that?"
"Y ou never wanted to m urde r him. M aybe scare them b oth a bit; b ut not kill them . It was yo ur loving grandfather's
idea."
"N obo dy tells me what to do," Billy rep lied; his gaze was icy. "N obo dy."
"All right," Cleve conceded , 'maybe he persuaded you, eh?; told you it was a matter of family pride. Something like
that?" The observation clea rly touched a nerve; the tremo rs had increased.
"So? What if he did?"
"I've seen where you're going to go, Billy. A place just waiting for you . . ." The boy stared at Cleve, but didn't make
to interrupt. "Only murderers occupy the city, Billy. That's why your grandfather's there. And if he can find a
replacement - if he can reach out and ma ke mo re murder - he can go free."
Billy stood up, face like a fury. All trace of derision had gone. "What do you mean: free?"
"Back to the world. Back here."
"You're lying -"
"Ask him."
"He wouldn't cheat me. His blood's my blood."
"You think he cares? After fifty years in that place, waiting for a chance to be out and away. You think he gives a
damn how he does it?"
"I'll tell him how you lie. . ." Billy said. The anger was not entirely directed at Cleve; there was an undercurrent of
dou bt there, which B illy was trying to supp ress. "Y ou're dead," he said, "when he finds out how yo u're trying to
poiso n me a gainst him . You'll see him, then. Oh yes. Yo u'll see him. A nd you'll wish to Christ you hadn't."
There seemed to b e no w ay out. E ven if Cleve co uld co nvince the authorities to move him b efore night fell - (a slim
chance indeed; he would have to re verse all that he had claimed about the bo y - tell them B illy was dangero usly
insane, or som ething sim ilar. Certainly not the truth.) - even if he were to have himself transferred to ano ther cell,

there was no promise of safety in such a manoeuvre. The boy had said he was smoke and shadow. Neither door nor
bars c ould keep such insinuations at bay; the fate of Lo well and Nayler was p roof positive of that. N or was Billy
alone. There was Edgar St Clair Tait to be accounted for; and what powers might he possess? Yet to stay in the same
cell with the boy tonight would amount to self-slaughter, wouldn't it? He would be delivering himself into the hands
of the beasts.
W hen they left their cells for the evening meal, Cleve looked around for Devlin, located him, and asked for the
opportunity of a short interview, which was granted. After the meal, Cleve reported to the officer.
"Y ou asked me to keep an eye o n Billy Tait, sir."
"What about him?"
Cleve had thought hard about what he might tell Devlin that would bring an im med iate transfer: nothing had com e to
mind. He stumbled, hoping for inspiration, but was empty-mouthed.
"I... I... want to put in a request for a cell transfer."
"Why?"
The boy's unbalan ced," Cleve rep lied. "I'm afraid he's going to do m e harm . Hav e ano ther of his fits -"
"You could lay him flat with one hand tied behind your back; he's worn to the bone." At this point, had he been
talking to Mayflower, Cleve might have been able to make a direct appeal to the man. With Devlin such tactics
would be doo med from the beginning.
"I don't know why you're complaining. He's been as good as gold," said Devlin, savouring the parody of fond father.
"Q uiet; always polite. He's no danger to you or anyone ."
"Y ou don't know him -"
"What are you trying to pull here?"
Put m e in a Rule 43 cell, sir. Anywhere , I don't mind. Just get me out of his way. Please."
Devlin didn't reply, but stared at Cleve, mystified. At last, he sa id, "Y ou are scared of him."
"Y es."
"W hat's wrong with you ? Y ou've shared cells with ha rd men and never turned a hair."
"H e's different," Cleve replied ; there wa s little else he could say, except: "H e's insane. I tell you he's insane."
"All the world's crazy, save thee and me, Smith. Hadn't you heard?" Devlin laughed. "Go back to your cell and stop
belly-aching. You don't want a ghost train ride, now do you?"
W hen Cleve returned to the cell, Billy was writing a letter. Sitting on his bunk, poring over the paper, he looked
utterly vulnerable. W hat Devlin had said was true: the boy was worn to the bone. It was difficult to believe, looking
at the ladder of his vertebrae, visible through his T-shirt, that this frail form could survive the throes of
transformation. But then, maybe it would not. Maybe the rigours of change would tear him apart with time. But not
soon enough.
"B illy . . ."
The bo y didn't take his eyes from his letter.
". . . what I sa id, about the city . . ."
He stopped writing ". . . mayb e I was im agining it all. Just dreaming . . ."
- and started again.
". . . I only told you beca use I wa s afraid for you. That was all. I want us to be friends . . ."
Billy looked up.
"It's not in m y hands," he sa id, very sim ply. "N ot now. It's up to G randfather. H e may be merciful; he may no t."
"Why do you have to tell him?"
"H e knows what's in me. He and I... we're like one. T hat's how I know he wo uldn't cheat me."
Soon it would be night; the lights would go out along the wing, the shadows would come.
"So I just have to wait, do I?" Cleve said.
Billy no dde d. "I'll call him , and the n we'll see."
Call him?, Cleve thought. Did the old man need summ oning from his resting place every night? W as that what he
had seen Billy doing, standing in the middle of the cell, eyes closed and face up to the window? If so, perhaps the
boy could be prevented from putting in his call to the dead.
As the evening deepened Cleve lay on his bunk and thought his options through. Was it better to wait here, and see
what judgement came from T ait, or attem pt to take con trol of the situation and block the old man's arrival? If he did
so, there would be no going back; no room for pleas or apologies: his aggression would undoubtedly breed
aggression. If he failed to prevent the boy from calling Tait, it would be the end.
The lights went out. In c ells up and down the five landings o f B W ing men wou ld be turning the ir faces to their

pillows. Some, perhaps, would lie awake planning their careers when this minor hiccup in their professional lives
was over; others would be in the arms of invisible mistresses. Cleve listened to the sounds of the cell: the rattling
progress of water in the pipes, the shallow breathing from the bunk below. Sometimes it seemed that he had lived a
second lifetime on this stale pillow, marooned in darkne ss.
The breathing from below soon became practically inaudible; nor was there sound of movement. Perhaps Billy was
waiting for Cleve to fall asleep before he ma de an y move. If so, the boy would wait in vain. He w ould not close his
eyes and leave them to slaughter him in his sleep. He wasn't a pig, to be taken uncomplaining to the knife.
Mo ving as cautiously as possible, so as to arouse no suspicion, Cleve unbuckled his belt and pulled it through the
loop s of his trousers. H e might make a more adequate binding b y tearing up his sheet and pillowc ase, but he co uld
not do so without arousing Billy's attention. Now he waited, belt in hand, and pretended sleep.
Tonight he was grateful that the noise in the Wing kept stirring him from dozing, because it was fully two hours
before Billy moved out of his bunk, two hours in which - despite his fear of what would happen should he sleep Cleve's eyelids betrayed him on three or four occasions. But others on the landings were tearful tonight; the deaths of
Lovell and Nayler had made even the toughest cons jittery. Shouts - and countercalls from those woken - punctuated
the hours. Despite the fatigue in his limbs, sleep did not master him.
W hen B illy finally go up from the lowe r bunk it was well past twelve, and the land ing was all but quiet. Cleve co uld
hear the boy's breath; it was no longer even, but had a catch in it. He watched, eyes like slits, as Billy crossed the cell
to his familiar place in front of the window. There was no do ubt that he was about to call up the old man.
As B illy closed his eyes, C leve sat up, threw off his blanket and slipped dow n from the bunk. T he bo y was slow to
respond . Before he quite com prehend ed what was happening, Cleve had crossed the cell, and thrust him back against
the wall, hand clamped over B illy's mouth.
"No, you don't," he hissed, "I'm not going to go like Lowell." Billy struggled, but Cleve was easily his physical
superior.
"H e's not going to co me tonight," C leve said, staring into the b oy's wide eyes, "b ecause you're not going to ca ll
him."
Billy fought more violently to be free, biting hard against his captor's palm. Cleve instinctively removed his hand
and in two strides the boy was at the window, reaching up. In his throat, a strange half-song; on his face, sudden and
inexplicable tears. Cleve dragged him away.
"Shut your noise up!" he snapped. But the boy continued to make the sound. Cleve hit him, open-handed but hard,
across the face. "Shut up!" he said. Still the boy refused to cease his singing; now the music had taken on another
rhythm. Again, Cleve hit him; and again. But the assault failed to silence him. There was a whisper of change in the
air of the cell; a shifting in its chiaroscuro. The shadows were moving.
Panic took Cleve. Without warning he made a fist and punched the boy hard in the stomach. As Billy doubled up an
upper-cut caught his jaw. It drove his head back against the wall, his skull connecting with the brick. Billy's legs
gave, and he collapsed. A featherweight, Cleve had once thought, and it was true. Two good punches and the boy
was laid out cold.
Cleve glanced round the cell. The movement in the shadows had been arrested; they trembled though, like
greyhounds awaiting release. Heart hammering, he carried Billy back to his bunk, and laid . him down. There was no
sign of consciousness returning; the boy lay limply on the mattress while Cleve tore up his sheet, and gagged him,
thrusting a ball of fab ric into the boy's mo uth to prevent him making a so und b ehind his gag. H e then p reced ed to tie
Billy to the bunk, using bo th his own belt and the boy's, supplemented with further makeshift bindings of torn sheets.
It took several minutes to finish the job. As Cleve was lashing the boy's legs together, he began to stir. His eyes
flickered open, full of puzzlement. Then, realizing his situation, he began to thrash his head from side to side; there
was little else he could do to sign al his pro test.
"No, Billy," Cleve murmured to him, throwing a blanket across his bound body to keep the fact from any officer
who might look in through the spy-hole before morning, "Tonight, you don't bring him. Everything I said was true,
boy. He wants out; and he's using you to escape." Cleve too k hold of B illy's head, fingers pressed against his cheeks.
"H e's not yo ur friend. / am. Always have been." Billy tried to shake his head from C leve's grip, but couldn't. "Don 't
waste yo ur energy," C leve ad vised, "it's going to be a lo ng night."
He left the bo y on the bunk, crosse d the cell to the wall, and slid do wn it to sit on his haunches and wa tch. He would
stay awake until dawn, and then, when there was some light to think by, he'd work out his next move. For now, he
was co ntent that his crude tactics had worked.
The bo y had stopped trying to fight; he had clearly realised the bonds were too expertly tied to be loosened. A kind
of calm descended on the cell: Cleve sitting in the patch of light that fell through the window, the boy lying in the
gloom of the lower bunk, breathing steadily through his nostrils. Cleve glanced at his watch. It was twelve-fifty-four.
W hen was mo rning? He didn't know. Five hours, at least. H e put his head back , and stared at the light.

It mesmerised him. The minutes ticked by slowly but steadily, and the light did not change. Sometimes an officer
would advance along the landing, and Billy, hearing the footsteps, would begin his struggling afresh. But nobody
looked into the cell. The two prisoners were left to their thoughts; Cleve to wonder if there would ever come a time
when he could be free o f the shad ow b ehind him, B illy to think whatever thoughts cam e to bound monsters. And still
the dead-of-night minutes went, minutes that crept across the mind like dutiful schoolchildren, one upon the heels of
the next, and after sixty had passed that sum was called an hour. And dawn was closer by that span, wasn't it? But
then so was death, and so, presumably, the end of the world: that glorious Last Trump of which The Bishop had
spoken so fondly, when the dead men under the lawn outside would rise a s fresh as yesterday's bread and go out to
meet their Maker. And sitting there against the wall, listening to Billy's inhalations and exhalations, and watching the
light in the glass and through the glass, Cleve knew without doubt that even if he escaped this trap, it was o nly a
temporary respite; that this long night, its minutes, its hours, were a foretaste of a longer vigil. He almost despaired
then; felt his soul sink into a hole from which there seemed to be no ho pe of retrieval. Here was the real world, he
wept. Not joy, not light, not looking forward; only this waiting in ignorance, without hope, even of fear, for fear
came only to those with dreams to lose. The hole was deep and d im. He peered up o ut of it at the light through the
window, and his thoughts became one wretched round. He forgot the bunk and the boy lying there. He forgot the
numbness that had overtaken his legs. He might, given time, have forgotten even the simple act of taking breath, but
for the smell of urine that pricked him from his fugue.
He loo ked towa rds the bunk. The b oy was void ing his bladder; but that act was simply a sympto m of som ething else
altogether. Beneath the blanket, Billy's body was moving in a dozen ways that his bonds should have prevented. It
took Cleve a few moments to shake off lethargy, and seconds more to realize what was happening. Billy was
changing.
Cleve tried to stand upright, but his lower limbs were dead from sitting so still for so long. He almost fell forward
across the cell, and only prevented himself by throwing out an arm to grasp the chair. His eyes were glued to the
gloom of the lower bunk. The mo vements were incre asing in scale and com plexity. T he blanket wa s pitched off.
Beneath it B illy's body wa s alread y beyond recognition; the same terrible p rocedure as he ha d seen befo re, but in
reverse. Matter gathering in buzzing clouds about the body, and congealing into atrocious forms. Limbs and organs
summoned from the ineffable, teeth shaping themselves like needles and plunging into place in a head grown large
and swelling still. He begged for Billy to stop, but with every drawn breath there was less of humanity to appeal to.
The strength the boy had lacked was granted to the beast; it had already broken almost all its constraints, and now, as
Cleve watched, it struggled free of the last, and rolled off the bu nk onto the floor of the cell.
Cleve backed off towards the door, his eyes scanning Billy's mutated form. He remembered his mother's horror at
earwigs and saw something of that insect in this anatomy: the way it bent its shiny back upon itself, exposing the
pad dling intra cies that lined its abdom en. Elsewhere, no analogy offered a ho ld on the sight. Its head was rife with
tongues, that licked its eyes clean in place of lids, and ran back and forth across its teeth, wetting and re-wetting
them constantly; from seeping holes along its flanks came a sewer stench. Yet even now there was a residue of
something human trapp ed in this fo ulness, its rum our o nly serving to heighten the filth of the who le. Seeing its
hooks and its spines Cleve remembered Lowell's rising scream; and felt his own throat pulse, ready to loose a sound
its equal should the beast turn on him.
But Billy had other intentions. He m oved - limbs in horrible array - to the window, and clamb ered up, pressing his
head against the glass like a leech. The music he made was no t like his pre vious so ng - but C leve had no doubt it
was the same summoning. He turned to the door, and began to beat upon it, hoping that Billy would be too distracted
with his call to turn on him before assistance came.
"Quickly! For Christ's sake! Quickly!" He yelled as loudly exhaustion would allow, and glanced over his shoulder
once to see if Billy was coming for him. He was not; he was still clamped to the window, though his call had all but
faltered. Its purp ose was achieved . Darkness was tyrant in the cell.
Panicking, Cleve turned back to the door and renewed his tattoo. There was someb ody running along the landing
now; he could hear shouts and impre cations from other c ells. "Jesus Christ, help m e!" he shouted. He cou ld feel a
chill at his back. H e didn't need to turn to kn ow what was happ ening b ehind him. T he shadow growing, the wa ll
dissolving so that the city and its occup ant could co me through. Tait was here. He could feel the man's presence, vast
and dark. Tait the child-killer, Tait the shadow-thing, Tait the transformer. Cleve beat on the door 'til his hands bled.
The feet seemed a continent away. Were they coming? W ere they coming?
The chill be hind him became a blast. He sa w his shadow thrown up o n to the d oor by flickering blue light; smelt
sand and blood.
And then, the voice. Not the boy, but that of his grandfather, of Edgar St Clair Tait. This was the man who had
pronoun ced himself the Devil's excrem ent, and hearing that ab horre nt voice Cleve be lieved both in Hell and its
master, believed himself already in the bow els of Satan, a witness to its wonde rs.

"Y ou are too inquisitive." Ed gar said , "It's time you went to bed."
Cleve didn't want to turn. The last thought in his head was that he should turn and look at the speaker. But he was no
longer subject to his own will; Tait had fingers in his head and was dabbling there. He turned, and looked.
The hanged m an was in the cell. He was not that beast Cleve had half-seen, that face of pulp and eggs. He was here
in the flesh; dressed for another age, and not without charm. His face was well-made; his brow wide, his eyes
unflinching. He still wore his wedding-ring on the hand that stroked Billy's bowed head like that of a pet dog.
Time to die, Mr. Smith," he said.
On the landing outside, Cleve heard Devlin shouting. He had no breath left to answer with. But he heard keys in the
lock or was that some illusion his mind had made to placate his panic?
The tiny cell was full of wind. It threw over the chair and table, and lifted the sheets into the air like childhood
ghosts. And now it took T ait, and the bo y with him; sucked them b ack into the receding persp ectives of the city.
"Come on no w - " T ait dem anded, his fac e corrupting, "we need you, body and so ul. Come with us, M r. Smith. W e
won't be denied."
"N o!" C leve yelled back at his tormentor. T he suction was plucking at his finge rs, at his eye-b alls. "I wo n't -"
Behind him, the door was rattling.
"I wo n't, you hear!"
Suddenly, the door was thrust open, and threw him forward into the vortex of fog and dust that was sucking Tait and
his grandchild away. He almost went with them, but that a hand grabbed at his shirt, and dragged him back from the
brink, even as consciousness gave itself up.
Som ewhere, far away, De vlin began to laugh like a hyena . He's lost his mind, Cleve decid ed; and the im age his
darkening thoughts evoked was one of the contents of Devlin's brain escaping, through his mouth as a flock of flying
dogs.
He awoke in dream s; and in the city. W oke rememb ering his last conscious moments: Devlin's hysteria, the hand
arresting his fall as the two figures we re suck ed aw ay in front of him. H e had followe d them , it seemed, unable to
prevent his co mato se mind from retread ing the fam iliar route to the murderers" metro polis. B ut Ta it had no t won yet.
He was still only d ream ing his presence here. His co rporeal self wa s still in Pento nville; his dislocatio n from it
informed his every step.
He listened to the wind. It was eloquent as ever: the voices coming and going with each gritty gust, but never, even
when the wind died to a whisper, disappearing entirely. As he listened, he heard a shout. In this mute city the sound
was a shock; it startled rats from their nests and birds up from some secluded plaza.
Curious, he pursued the sound, whose echoes were almost traced on the air. As he hurried down the empty streets he
heard further raised voices, and now men and women were appearing at the doors and windows of their cells. So
many faces, and nothing in common between one and the next to confirm the hopes of a physiognomist. Murder had
as many faces as it had occurrences. The only common quality was one of wretchedness, of minds despairing after
an age at the site of their crime. He glanced at them as he went, sufficiently distracted by their looks not to notice
where the shout was leading him until he found himself once more in the ghetto to which he had been led by the
child.
Now he round ed a corner and at the end of the cul-de-sac he'd seen from his previous visit here (the wall, the
window, the bloody chamber beyond) he saw B illy, writhing in the sand at Tait's feet. The bo y was half himself and
half that beast he had become in front of Cleve's eyes. The better part was convulsing in its attempt to climb free of
the other, but without success. In one moment the boy's body would surface, white and frail, only to be subsumed
the next into the flux of transfo rmatio n. W as that an arm forming, and b eing sna tched away again before it could
gain fingers?; was that a face pre ssed from the ho use of tongues that was the beast's head? T he sight defied analysis.
As soon as Cleve fixed upon some recognizable feature it was drowned again.
Edgar T ait looked up from the struggle in front of him, and bared his teeth at Cleve. It was a display a shark might
have envied.
"H e doubted me, M r. Smith . . ." the mo nster said ,". . . and came looking for his cell."
A mouth appea red from the patchwork on the sand and gave out a sharp cry, full of pain and terror.
"Now he wants to be away from me," Tait said, "You sewed the doubt. He must suffer the consequences." He
pointed a trembling finger at Cleve, and in the act of pointing the limb transformed, flesh becoming bruised leather.
"Y ou came where yo u were not wanted, and look at the agonies you've b rought."
Tait kicked the thing at his feet. It rolled over on to its back, vomiting.
"H e needs me," T ait said. "Do n't you have the sen se to see that? W ithout me, he's lost."
Cleve didn't reply to the hanged man, but instead addressed the beast on the sand.
"Billy?" he said, calling the boy out of the flux.

"Lost," Tait said.
"B illy . . ." Cleve repeated. " Listen to me . . ."
"H e won't go back now," T ait said. "Yo u're just dreaming this. But he's here, in the flesh."
"B illy," Cleve persevered, "Do you hear me. It's me; it's Cleve."
The bo y seemed to pause in its gyrations for an instant, as if hearing the appeal. Cleve said Billy's name again, and
again.
It was one of the first skills the human child learned: to call itself something. If anything could reach the boy it was
surely his own name.
"Billy . . . Billy . . ." At the repeated word, the body rolled itself over.
Tait seemed to have becom e uneasy. The confidence he'd displayed was now silenced. His body was darkening, the
head becoming bulbous. Cleve tried to keep his eyes off the subtle distortions in Edgar's anatomy and concentrate on
winning back Billy. The repetition of the name was paying dividends; the beast was being subdued. Moment by
moment there was more of the boy emerging. He looked pitiful; skin-and-bones on the black sand. But his face was
almost reconstructed now, and his eyes were on Cleve.
"Billy . . . ?"
He nodded. His hair was plastered to his forehead with sweat; his limbs were in spasm.
"You know where you are? Who you are?"
At first it seemed as though co mprehension escap ed the bo y. And then - by degrees - recognition formed in his eyes,
and with it came a terror of the man standing over him.
Cleve glanced up at Tait. In the few seconds since he had last looked all but a few human characteristics had been
erased from his head and upper torso, revealing corruptions more profound than those of his grandchild. Billy gazed
up over his shoulder like a whipped dog.
"Y OU belong to m e," T ait pronounced, through feature s barely capable of speec h. Billy saw the limb s descending to
snatch at him, and rose from his prone position to escape them, but he was too tardy. Cleve saw the spiked hook of
Tait's limb wrap itself around Billy's neck, and draw him close. Blood leapt from the slit windpipe, and with it the
whine of escaping air.
Cleve yelled.
"W ith me," Tait said, the words deteriorating into gibberish.
Suddenly the narrow cul-de-sac was filling up with brightness, and the boy and Tait and the city were being
bleac hed out. Cleve tried to hold on to them, but they were slipp ing from him; and in their place another conc rete
reality: a light, a face (faces) and a voice calling him out of one absurdity and into another.
The doctor's hand was on his face. It felt clam my.
"W hat on earth were you dreaming about?" he asked, the perfect idiot.
Billy had gone.
Of all the mysteries that the Governor - and Devlin and the other officers who had stepped into cell B. at 3.20 that
night - had to face, the total disappearance of William Tait from an unbreached cell was the most perplexing. Of the
vision that had set Devlin giggling like a loon nothing was said; easier to believe in some collective delusion than
that they'd seen some objective reality. When Cleve attempted to articulate the events of that night, and of the many
nights previous to that, his monologue, interrupted often by his tears and silences, was met with feigned
understanding and sideways glances. He told the story over several times, however, despite their condescension, and
they, looking no doubt for a clue amongst his lunatic fables as to the reality of Billy Tait's Houdini act, attended
every w ord. W hen they found nothing amo ngst his tales to advance their investigations, they began to lose their
tempers with him. Consolation was replaced with threats. They demanded, voices louder each time they asked the
question, where Billy had gone. Cleve answered the only way he knew ho w. "To the city," he told them, "he's a
murd erer, you see."
"And his body?" the Governor said. "Where do you suppose his body is?"
Cleve didn't know, and said so. It wasn't until much later, four full days later in fact, that he was standing by the
window watching the gardening detail bearing this spring's plantings cross between wings, that he remembered the
lawn.
He found Mayflower, who had been returned to B Wing in lieu of Devlin, and told the officer the thought that had
com e to him . "He's in the grav e," he said. "He's with his grand father. Smok e and shadow."
They dug up the coffin by cover of night, an elaborate shield of poles and tarpaulins erected to keep proceedings
from prying eyes, and lamps, bright as day but not so warm, trained on the labours of the men volunteered as an
exhumation party. Cleve's answer to the riddle of Tait's disappearance had met with almost universal bafflement, but
no explanation - however absurd - was being overlooked in a mystery so intractable. Thus they gathered at the

unmarked grave to turn earth that looked not to have been disturbed in five decades: the Governor, a selection of
Home Office officials; a pathologist and Devlin. One of the doctors, believing that Cleve's morbid delusion would be
best countered if he viewed the contents of the coffin, and saw his error with his own eyes, convinced the Governor
that Cleve should also be numbere d amo ngst the spectators.
There was little in the confines of Edgar St Clair Tait's coffin that Cleve had not seen before. The corpse of the
murderer - returned here (as smoke perhaps?) neither quite beast nor quite human, and preserved, as The Bishop had
promised , as undecayed as the day of his execution - shared the coffin with B illy Tait, who lay, naked as a ba be, in
his grandfather's embrace. E dgar's corrup ted limb was still wound around B illy's neck, and the walls o f the coffin
were dark with congealed blood. But Billy's face was not besmirched. He looks like a doll, one of the doctors
observed. Cleve wanted to reply that no doll had such tear stains on its cheeks, nor such despair in its eyes, but the
thought refused to becom e words.
Cleve was released from Pentonville three weeks later after special application to the Parole Board, with only twothirds of his sentence completed. He returned, within half a year, to the only profession that he had ever known. Any
hope he might have had of release from his dreams was short-lived. The place was with him still: neither so focussed
nor so easily traversed now that Billy - whose mind had opened that door - was gone, but still a potent terror, the
lingering presence of which wearied Cleve.
Sometimes the dreams would almost recede comp letely, only to return again with terrible potency. It took Cleve
several months before he began to grasp the pattern of this vacillation. People brought the dream to him. If he spent
time with somebody who had murderous intentions, the city came back. Nor were such people so rare. As he grew
more sensitive to the lethal streak in those around him he found himself scarcely able to walk the street. They were
everywhere, these embryonic killers; people wearing smart clothes and sunny expressions were striding the
pavement and imagining, as they strode, the deaths of their employers and their spouses, of soap-opera stars and
incomp etent tailors. The wo rld had m urder on its mind, and he co uld no longer bear its thoughts.
Only heroin offered some release from the burden of exp erience. He had never d one much intravenous H , but it
rapid ly became he aven and earth to him. It was an expensive addiction ho wever, and one w hich his inc reasingly
truncated circle of professional contacts could scarcely hope to finance. It was a man called Grimm, a fellow addict
so desperate to avoid reality he could get high on fermented milk, who suggested that Cleve might want to do some
work to earn him a fee the equal of his appetite. It seemed like a wise idea. A meeting was arranged, and a proposal
put. The fee for the job was so high it could not be refused by a man so in need of money. The job, of course, was
murder.
"T here are no visitors here; only p rospective citizens". He had been told that once, tho ugh he no lon ger quite
remembered by whom, and he believed in prophecies. If he didn't commit murder now, it would only be a matter of
time until he did.
But, though the details of the assassination which he undertook had a terrible familiarity to him, he had not
anticipated the collision of circumstances by which he ended fleeing from the scene of his crime barefoot, and
running so hard on pavement and tarmac that by the time the police cornered him and shot him down his feet were
blood y, and ready at last to tread the streets of the city - just as he had in dreams.
The room he'd killed in was waiting for him, and he lived there, hiding his head from any who appeared in the street
outside, for several months. (He assumed time passed here, by the beard he'd grown; though sleep came seldom, and
day ne ver.) A fter a while, howe ver, he braved the cool wind and the butterflies a nd took him self off to the city
perimeters, where the houses petered out and the desert took over. He went, not to see the dunes, but to listen to the
voices that came always, rising and falling, like the howls of jackals or children.
He stayed there a lo ng while, and the wind consp ired with the desert to bury him. B ut he was not disapp ointed with
the fruit of his vigil. For one day (or year), he saw a man come to the place and drop a gun in the sand, then wander
out into the desert, where, after a while, the makers of the voices came to meet him, loping and wild, dancing on
their crutches. They surrounded him, laughing. He went with them, laughing. And though distance and the wind
smud ged the sight, Cleve wa s certain he saw the man picked up by one of the c elebrants, and taken o n to its
shoulders as a boy, thence snatched into another's arms as a baby, until, at the limit of his senses, he heard the man
bawl as he was delivered back into life. He went away content, knowing at last how sin (and he) had come into the
world.

THE LAST ILLUSION
W HAT HAPP ENE D TH EN - when the magician, having mesmerised the caged tiger, pulled the tasselled cord that
released a dozen swords upon its head - was the subject of heated argument both in the bar of the theatre and later,
when Swann's performance was over, on the sidewalk of 51st Street. Some claimed to have glimpsed the bottom of
the cage opening in the split sec ond that all othe r eyes we re on the descend ing blades, and seen the tiger swiftly
spirited away as the woman in the red dress took its place behind the lacquered bars. Others were just as adamant
that the animal had never been in the cage to begin with, its presence merely a projection which had been
extinguished as a me chanism prope lled the w oma n from bene ath the stage; this, of course , at such a speed that it
deceived the eye of all but those swift and suspicious enough to catch it. And the swords? The nature of the trick
which had transformed them in the mere seconds of their gleaming descent from steel to rose-petals was yet further
fuel for debate. The explanations ranged from the prosaic to the elaborate, but few of the throng that left the theatre
lacked som e theory. No r did the arguments finish there, on the sidewalk. T hey raged on, no d oubt, in the apartments
and restaurants of New Y ork.
The pleasure to be had from Swann's illusions was, it seemed, twofold. First: the spectacle of the trick itself - in the
breathless moment when disbelief was, if not suspended, at least taken on tip-toe. And second, when the mom ent
was over and logic restored, in the debate as to how the trick had been achieved.
"How do you do it, Mr. Swann?" Barbara Bernstein was eager to know.
"It's magic," Sw ann replied. He had invited her backstage to examine the tiger's cage for any sign of fakery in its
construction; she had found none. She had examined the swords: they were lethal. And the petals, fragrant. Still she
insisted:
"Yes, but really . . ." she leaned close to him. "You can tell me," she said, "I promise I won't breathe a word to a
soul."
He returned her a slow sm ile in place of a reply.
"O h, I know. . ."she said,"you're go ing to tell me that you've signed some kind of oath."
"That's right," Swann said.
"- And you're forbid den to give away any trade secrets."
"The intention is to give you pleasure," he told her. "Have I failed in that?"
"Oh no," she replied, without a moment's hesitation. "Everybody's talking about the show. You're the toast of New
Yo rk."
"No," he protested.
"Truly," she said, "I know people who would give their eye-teeth to get into this theatre. And to have a guided tour
backstage . . . well, I'll be the envy of everybody."
"I'm pleased," he said, and touched her face. She had clearly been anticipating such a move on his part. It would be
something else for her to boast of: her seduction by the man critics had dubbed the Magus of M anhattan.
"I'd like to make love to you," he whispered to her.
"Here?" she said.
"N o," he told her. "N ot within ear-shot of the tigers."
She laughed. She preferred her lovers twen ty years Swann's junior - he lo oked, som eone had obse rved, like a ma n in
mourning for his profile, but his touch promised wit no boy could offer. She liked the tang of dissolution she sensed
beneath his gentlemanly facade. Swann was a dangerous man. If she turned him down she might never find another.
"We could go to a hotel," she suggested.
"A hotel," he said, "is a go od id ea."
A look of doubt had crossed her face.
"W hat about your wife . . .?" she said . "W e might be see n."
He took her hand. "Shall we be invisible, then?"
"I'm serious."
"So am I," he insisted. "Take it from me; seeing is not believing. I should know. It's the cornerstone of my
profession." She did not look much reassured. "If anyone recognises us," he told her, "I'll simply tell them their eyes
are playing tricks."
She smiled at this, and he kissed her. She returned the kiss with unquestionable fervour.
"Miraculous," he said, when their mouths parted. "Shall we go before the tigers gossip?"
He led her across the stage. T he cleaners had not yet got about their business, and there , lying on the board s, was a
litter of rose-bud s. Som e had been tramp led, a few had not. Swann took his hand from hers, and walked across to
where the flowe rs lay.
She watched him stoop to pluck a rose from the ground, enchanted by the gesture, but before he could stand upright

again something in the air above him caught her eye. She looked up and her gaze met a slice of silver that was even
now plunging towards him. She mad e to warn him, b ut the swo rd was quicker than her tongue. A t the last po ssible
moment he seemed to sense the danger he was in and looked round, the bud in his hand, as the point met his back.
The sword's momentum carried it through his body to the hilt. Blood fled from his chest, and splashed the floor. He
made no sound, but fell forward, forcing two-thirds of the sword's length out of his body again as he hit the stage.
She would have screamed, but that her attention was claimed by a sound from the clutter of magical apparatus
arrayed in the wings behind her, a muttered growl which was indisputably the voice of the tiger. She froze. There
were probably instructions on how best to stare down rogue tigers, but as a Manhattanite born and bred they were
techniques she wasn't acquainted with.
"Swann?" she said, hoping this yet might be some baroque illusion staged purely for her benefit. "Swann. Please get
up."
But the magician only lay where he had fallen, the pool spreading from beneath him.
"If this is a joke -" she said testily,"- I'm not amused." When he didn't rise to her remark she tried a sweeter tactic.
"Sw ann, my sweet, I'd like to go now, if you don't mind."
The growl came again. She didn't want to turn and seek out its source, but equally she didn't want to be sprung upon
from behind.
Cautiously she looked round . The wings were in dark- ness. The clutter of properties kept her from working out the
precise location of the beast. She could hear it still, however: its tread, its growl. Step by step, she retreated towards
the apron o f the stage. The close d curtains sealed her off from the aud itorium, but she hoped she might scramble
under them before the tiger reached her.
As she backed against the heavy fabric, one of the shadows in the wings forsook its ambiguity, and the animal
appeared. It was not beautiful, as she had thought it when behind bars. It was vast and lethal and hungry. She went
down on her haunches and reached for the hem of the curtain. The fabric was heavily weighted, and she had more
difficulty lifting it than she'd expected, but she had managed to slide halfway under the drape when, head and hands
pressed to the boards, she sensed the thump of the tiger's advance. An instant later she felt the splash of its breath on
her bare back, an d scre amed as it ho oked its talons into her body and hauled her from the sight of safety toward s its
steaming jaws.
Even then, she refused to give up her life. She kicked at it, and tore out its fur in handfuls, and delivered a hail of
punc hes to its snout. B ut her resistance was negligible in the face of such authority; her assault, for all its ferocity,
did not slow the beast a jot. It ripped open her body with one casual clout. Mercifully, with that first wound her
senses gave up all claim to verisimilitude, and took instead to preposterous invention. It seemed to her that she heard
app lause fro m somewhere, and the roar o f an approving audienc e, and that in place of the bloo d that was surely
springing from her bo dy there cam e fou ntains of sparkling light. T he agony her nerve-endings were suffering didn 't
touch her at all. Even when the animal had divided her into three or four parts her head lay on its side at the edge of
the stage and watched as her torso was mauled and her limbs devoured.
And all the while, when she wond ered ho w all this could be possible - that her eyes could live to witness this last
supper - the only reply she could think of was Swann's:
"It's magic," he'd said.
Indeed, she was thinking that very thing, that this must be magic, when the tiger ambled across to her head, and
swallowed it down in one bite.
Amo ngst a certain set Harry D 'Amour liked to believe he had some sm all reputation - a coterie which d id not, alas,
include his ex-wife, his cred itors or those anonym ous critics who regularly posted dogs" excrement through his
office letterbox. But the woman who was on the phone now, her voice so full of grief she might have been crying for
half a year, and was ab out to begin ag ain, she knew him for the p aragon he was.
"-I nee d your help, M r. D'Am our; ve ry bad ly."
"I'm busy on several cases at the moment," he told her. "Maybe you could come to the office?"
"I can't leave the house ," the woma n inform ed him . "I'll explain everything. Please co me."
He was sorely temp ted. B ut there w ere several o ut- standing cases, one o f which, if not solved soon , might end in
fratricide. He suggested she try elsewhere.
"I can't go to just anybody," the woman insisted.
"Why me?"
"I rea d about you. About what happened in B rooklyn."
Making m ention of his mo st conspicuo us failure was not the surest metho d of securing his services, Harry thought,
but it certainly got his attention. What had happened in Wyckoff Street had begun innocently enough, with a
husband who'd emp loyed him to sp y on his adulterous wife, and had end ed on the top storey of the Lo max ho use

with the world he thought he'd know n turning inside o ut. W hen the bod y-count was do ne, and the surviving priests
dispatched, he was left with a fear of stairs, and more questions than he'd ever answer this side of the family plot. He
took no pleasure in being reminded of those terrors.
"I don't like to talk about Brooklyn," he said.
"Forgive me," the woman replied, "but I need somebody who has experience with . . . with the occult." She stopped
speaking for a moment. He could still hear her breath down the line: soft, but erratic. "I need you," she said. He had
already decided, in that pause when only her fear had been audible, what reply he would make.
"I'll come."
"I'm grateful to you," she said. "The house is on East 61st Street -" He scribbled down the details. Her last words
were, "Please hurry." Then she put down the phone.
He made some calls, in the vain hope of placating two of his more excitable clients, then pulled on his jacket, locked
the office, and started downstairs. The landing and the lobby smelt pungent. As he reached the front door he caught
Chaplin, the ja nitor, em erging from the basement.
"This place stinks," he told the man.
"It's disinfectant."
"It's cat's piss," Harry said. " Get some thing do ne ab out it, will you? I've go t a repu tation to protect."
He left the man laughing.
The brow nstone on East 61st Street was in pristine condition. He stood on the scrubbed step, sweaty and sourbreathed, and felt like a slob. The expression on the face that met him when the door opened did nothing to dissuade
him of that opinion.
"Yes?" it wanted to know.
"I'm H arry D 'Amour," he said. "I got a call."
The man nodded. "You'd better come in," he said without enthusiasm.
It was cooler in than out; and sweeter. The place reeked of perfume. Harry followed the disapproving face down the
hallway and into a large room, on the othe r side o f which - across an oriental carpet that had everything woven into
its pattern but the price - sat a widow. She didn't suit black; nor tears. She stood up and offered her hand.
"Mr. D'Amour?"
"Y es."
"V alentin will get you so mething to drink if you'd like."
"Please. M ilk, if you have it." His belly had been jittering for the last hour; since her talk of W yckoff Street, in fact.
Valentin retired from the roo m, not taking his b eady eyes off Harry until the last possible moment.
"Somebody died," said Harry, once the man had gone.
"That's right," the widow said, sitting down again. At her invitation he sat opposite her, amongst enough
cushio ns to furnish a harem. "My husba nd."
"I'm sorry."
"There's no time to be sorry," she said, her every look and gesture betraying her words. He was glad of her grief; the
tearstains and the fatigue blemished a bea uty which, had he seen it unimpaired, might have rendered him dumb with
admiration.
"T hey say tha t my husb and's death was an accide nt," she was saying. "I know it wasn't."
"May I ask . . . your name?"
"I'm sorry. My name is Swann, Mr. D'Amour. Dorothea Swann. You may have heard of my husband?"
The magician?"
"Illusionist," she said.
"I rea d about it. Tragic."
"Did you ever see his performance?"
Harry shoo k his head. "I can't afford Bro adway, M rs Swann."
"W e were only ov er for three months, while his sho w ran. W e were going back in Sep tember . . ."
"Back?"
"T o H amb urg," she said , "I do n't like this city. It's too hot. And too cruel."
"D on't blame New Y ork," he said. "It can't help itself."
"M aybe ," she rep lied, nodd ing. "P erhaps what hap- pened to S wann wo uld have hap pe ned anyway, wherever we'd
been. People keep telling me: it was an accide nt. That's all. Just an ac ciden t." "B ut you d on't believ e it?" Valentin
had appeared with a glass of milk. He set it down on the table in front of Harry. As he made to leave, she said:
"Valentin. The letter?"
He looked at her strangely, almost as though she'd said something obscene.

"The letter," she repeated.
He exited.
"Y ou were saying -"
She frowned. "What?"
"Abou t it being an accident."
"O h yes. I lived with Swann seven an d a half years, and I got to understand him as well as anyb ody ever co uld. I
learned to sense when he wanted me around, and when he didn't. W hen he didn't, I'd take myself off somewhere and
let him have his privacy. Genius needs privacy. And he was a genius, you know. The greatest illusionist since
Ho udini."
"Is that so?"
"I'd think sometimes - it was a kind of miracle that he let me into his life . . ."
Harry wanted to say Swann would have been mad no t to have done so, but the comment was inappropriate. She
didn't want blandishments; didn't need them. Didn't need anything, perhaps, but her husband alive again.
"No w I think I didn't know him at all," she went on, "I didn't understand him. I think maybe it was another trick.
Ano ther pa rt of his ma gic."
"I called him a mag ician a while back," H arry said . "You co rrected me ."
"So I did," she said , conceding his point with an apolo getic loo k. "Forgive me. That was S wann talking. H e hated to
be ca lled a m agician. He sa id that wa s a word that had to be kept for m iracle-workers."
"And he was no miracle-worker?"
"He used to call himself the Great Pretender," she said. The thought made her smile.
Valentin had re-appeared, his lugubrious features rife with suspicion. He carried an envelope, which he clearly had
no desire to give up. Do rothea had to cross the carp et and take it from his hand s.
"Is this wise?" he said.
"Yes," she told him.
He turned on his heel and made a smart withdrawal. "He's grief-stricken," she said. "Forgive him his behaviour. He
was with Swann from the beginning of his career. I think he loved my husband as much as I did." She ran her linger
down into the envelope and pulled the letter out. The paper was pale yellow, and gossamer- thin.
"A few hours after he died , this letter was delivered here by hand," she sa id. "It was addressed to him. I opened it. I
think you ought to read it." She passed it to him. The hand it was written in was solid and unaffected.
Dorothea, he had written, if you are reading this, then I am dead. Yo u know how little store I set by dreams and
premonitions and such; but for the last few days strange thoughts have just crept into my head, and I have the
suspicion that death is very close to me. If so, so. There's no help for it. Don't waste time trying to puzzle out the
whys and whe refores; they're old news now. Just know that I love you, and tha t I have a lways loved you in my way.
I'm sorry for whatever unhappiness I've caused, or am causing now, but it was out of my hands. I have some
instructions regarding the disposal of my body. Please adhere to them to the letter. Don't let anybody try to persuade
you out of doing as I ask. I want you to have my body watched night and day until I'm cremated. Don't try and take
m y re ma in s b ack to Eu ro pe. H av e m e cremate d he re , a s soon a s possible , then throw the a shes in the East R iver. My
sweet darling, I'm afraid. Not of bad dreams, or of what might happen to me in this life, but of what my enemies may
try to do once I'm dead. Y ou know how critics can be: they wait until you can't fight them back, then they start the
character assassinations. It's too long a b usiness to try and explain all of this, so I must simply trust you to do as I
say. Again, I love you, and I hope you never have to read this letter.
Your ado ring,
Swann."
"Some farewell note," Harry commented when he'd read it through twice. He folded it up and passed it back to the
widow.
"I'd like you to stay with him," she said. "Corpse-sit, if you will. Just until all the legal formalities are dealt with and
I can m ake arrangements for his crema tion. It sho uldn't take them long. I've got a lawyer working on it now."
"Again: why me?"
She avoided his gaze. "As he says in the letter, he was never superstitious. But I am. I believe in omens. And there
was an odd atmosphere about the place in the days before he d ied. As if we were watched."
"You think he was murdered?"
She m used on this, then said: " I don't believe it was an accide nt."
"T hese enemies he talks abo ut..."
"H e was a great m an. M uch en vied."
"Professional jealousy? Is that a motive for murder?"
"Anything can be a motive, can't it?" she said.

"People get killed for the colour of their eyes, don't they?"
Harry was impressed. It had taken him twenty years to learn how arbitrary things were. She spoke it as conventional
wisdom.
"W here is your husband?" he asked her.
"Up stairs," she said. "I had the body brought back here, where I could look after him. I can't pretend I understand
what's going on, but I'm no t going to risk ignoring his instructions."
Harry nod ded .
"Swann was my life," she added softly, apropos of nothing; and everything.
She took him upstairs. The perfume that had met him at the door intensified. The master bedroom had been turned
into a Chapel of Rest, knee-deep in sprays and wreaths of every shape and variety; their mingled scents verged on
the hallucinogenic. In the midst of this abundance, the casket - an elaborate affair in black and silver - was mounted
on trestles. The upper half of the lid stood open, the plush overlay folded back. At Dorothea's invitation he waded
through the tributes to view the deceased. He liked Swann's face; it had humour, and a certain guile; it was even
handsome in its weary way. More: it had inspired the love of Dorothea; a face could have few better
recommendations. H arry stoo d waist-high in flowers and , absurd as it was, felt a twinge of envy for the love this
man must have enjoyed.
"Will you help me, Mr. D'Amour?"
W hat could he say but: "Yes, of course I'll help." T hat, and : "Call me H arry."
He wo uld be m issed at W ing's Pavilion tonight. He had occup ied the best table there e very Friday night for the pa st
six and a half years, eating at one sitting enough to compensate for what his diet lacked in excellence and variety the
other six days of the week. This feast - the best Chinese cuisine to be had south of Canal Street - came gratis, thanks
to services he had o nce rendered the owne r. To night the table wo uld go emp ty.
Not that his stomach suffered. He had only been sitting with Swann an hour or so when Valentin came up and said:
"How do you like your steak?"
"Just shy of burned," Harry replied.
Valentin was none too pleased by the response. "I hate to overcook good steak," he said.
"And I ha te the sight of blood," Harry said, " even if it isn't my own."
The chef clearly despaired of his guest's palate, and turned to go.
"Valentin?"
The man looked round.
"Is that your Christian name?" Harry asked.
"Christian names are for C hristians," came the reply.
Harry nodded. "You don't like my being here, am I right?"
Valentin made no reply. His eyes had drifted past Harry to the open coffin.
"I'm not going to be here for long," Harry said, "but while I am, can't we be friends?"
Valentin's gaze found him once more.
"I don't have any friend s," he sa id witho ut enmity or self-pity. "No t now."
"O K. I'm so rry."
"W hat's to be sorry for?" Valentin wanted to know. "Swann's dead. It's all over, bar the shouting." The doleful face
stoically refused tears. A sto ne wo uld weep so oner, Harry guessed. B ut there w as grief there, and all the mo re acute
for being dumb.
"O ne question."
"Only one?"
"Why didn't you want me to read his letter?"
Valentin raised his eyebrows slightly; they were fine enough to have been pencilled on. "He wasn't insane," he said.
"I didn't want you thinking he was a craz y man, b ecause of what he wrote. W hat you read you keep to yourself.
Swann was a legen d. I do n't want his memo ry besm irched ."
"Y ou sho uld write a bo ok," Harry said. " Tell the whole story once and for all. Yo u were with him a long time, I
hear."
"O h yes," said Valentin. "Long enough to know better than to tell the truth."
So saying he made an exit, leaving the flowers to wilt, and Harry with more puzzles on his hands than he'd begun
with.
Twenty minutes later, Valentin brought up a tray of food: a large salad, bread, wine, and the steak. It was one degree
short o f charcoal.
"Just the way I like it," Harry said, and set to guzzling.

He didn't see Dorothea Swann, though God knows he thought about her often enough. Every time he heard a
whisper on the stairs, or footsteps along the carpetted landing, he hoped her face would appear at the door, an
invitation on her lips. Not perhaps the most approp riate of thoughts, given the proximity of her husband's corpse, but
what would the illusionist care now? He was dead and gone. If he had any generosity o f spirit he wo uldn't want to
see his widow drown in her grief.
Harry drank the half-carafe of wine Valentin had brought, and when - three-quarters of an hour later - the man reappeared with coffee and Calvados, he told him to leave the bottle.
Nightfall was near. The traffic was noisy on Lexington and Third. Out of boredom he took to watching the street
from the window. Two lovers feuded loudly on the sidewalk, and only stopped when a brunette with a hare-lip and a
pekinese stood watching them shamelessly. There were preparations for a party in the brownstone opposite: he
watched a table lovingly laid, and candles lit. After a time the spying began to depress him, so he called Valentin and
asked if there was a portable television he could have access to. No sooner said than provided, and for the next two
hours he sat with the small black and white monitor on the floor amongst the orchids and the lilies, watching
whatever mindless e ntertainm ent it offered, the silver luminescence flickering on the bloo ms like excitable
moo nlight.
A quarter after midnight, with the party across the street in full swing, Valentin came up. "Yo u want a night-cap?" he
asked.
"Sure."
"Milk; or something stronger?"
"So mething stronger."
He prod uced a bottle of fine cognac, and two glasses. Together they toasted the dead man.
"M r. Swann."
"M r. Swann."
"If you need anything more tonight," V alentin said, "I'm in the roo m dire ctly abo ve. M rs Swann is do wn- stairs, so if
you hear som ebo dy mo ving ab out, do n't worry. Sh e doesn't sleep well these nights."
"Who does?" Harry replied.
Valentin left him to his vigil. Harry heard the man's tread on the stairs, and then the creaking of floorboard s on the
level above. He returned his attention to the television, but he'd lost the thread of the movie he'd been watching. It
was a long stretch 'til dawn; meanwhile New York would be having itself a fine Friday night: dancing, fighting,
fooling around. T he picture on the televisio n set began to flicker. H e stood up, and started to walk ac ross to the set,
but he never got there. Two steps from the chair where he'd been sitting the picture folded up and went out
altogether, plunging the room into total darkness. Harry briefly had time to register that no light was finding its way
through the windows from the street. The n the insanity began.
Something move d in the blackness: vague forms rose and fell. It took him a moment to recognise them . The flowers!
Invisible hands were tearing the wreaths and tributes apart, and tossing the blossoms up into the air. He followed
their descent, but they didn't hit the ground. It seemed the floorboards had lost all faith in themselves, and
disappeared, so the blossoms just kept falling - down, down - through the floor of the room below, and through the
basement floor, away to God alone knew what destination. Fear gripped Harry, like some old do pe-pusher promising
a terrible high. Even those few boards that remained beneath his feet were becoming insubstantial. In seconds he
would go the way of the blossoms.
He reeled around to locate the chair he'd got up from - some fixed point in this vertiginous nightmare. The chair was
still there; he could just discern its form in the gloom. W ith torn blossoms raining do wn up on him he reached for it,
but even as his hand took hold of the arm, the floor beneath the chair gave up the ghost, and now, by a ghastly light
that was thrown up from the pit that yawned beneath his feet, Harry saw it tumble away into Hell, turning over and
over 'til it was pin-prick small. Then it was gone; and the flowers were gone, and the walls and the windows and
every damn thing was gone but him.
Not quite everything. Swann's casket remained, its lid still standing open, its overlay neatly turned back like the
sheet o n a child 's bed. T he trestle had go ne, as ha d the floor beneath the trestle. But the casket floated in the dark air
for all the world like some morbid illusion, while from the depths a rumbling sound accompanied the trick like the
roll of a snare- drum.
Harry felt the last so lidity failing beneath him; felt the pit call. Eve n as his feet left the ground, tha t ground faded to
nothing, and for a terrifying moment he hung over the Gulfs, his hands seeking the lip of the casket. His right hand
caught hold of one of the handles, and closed thankfully around it. His arm was almo st jerked from its socket as it
took his body-weight, but he flung his other arm up and found the casket-edge. Using it as purchase, he hauled
himself up like a half-drowned sailor. It was a strange lifeboat, but then this was a strange sea. Infinitely deep,
infinitely terrible. Even as he laboured to secure himself a better hand- hold, the casket shook, and Harry looked up

to discover that the dead man was sitting upright. Swann's eyes opened wide. He turned them on Harry; they were
far from benign. The next moment the dead illusionist was scrambling to his feet - the floating casket rocking ever
more violently with eac h movement. Once ve rtical, Swann proceeded to d islodge his guest by grind ing his heel in
Harry's knuckles. Harry looked up at Swann, begging for him to stop.
The G reat Pretender was a sight to see. His eyes were starting from his sockets; his shirt was torn open to display the
exit-wound in his chest. It was bleeding afresh. A rain of cold blood fell upon Harry's upturned face. And still the
heel ground at his hands. Harry felt his grip slipping. Swann, sensing his approaching triumph, began to smile.
"Fall, boy!" he said. "Fall!"
Harry could take no more. In a frenzied effort to save himself he let go of the handle in his right hand, and reached
up to snatch at Swann's trouser-leg. His fingers found the hem, and he pulled. The smile vanished from the
illusionist's face as he felt his balance go. He reached behind him to take hold of the casket lid for support, but the
gesture only tipped the casket further over. The plush cushion tumbled past Harry's head; blossoms followed.
Swann howled in his fury and delivered a vicious kick to Harry's hand. It was an error. The casket tipped over
entirely and pitched the man out. Harry had time to glimpse Swann's appalled face as the illusionist fell past him.
Then he too lost his grip and tumbled after him. The dark air whined past his ears. Beneath him, the Gulfs spread
their empty arms. And then, behind the rushing in his head, another sound: a human voice. "Is he dead?" it inquired.
"No," another voice replied, "no, I don't think so.
What's his name, Dorothea?"
"D 'Amour."
"Mr. D'Amour? Mr. D'Amour?"
Harry's descent slowed somewhat. Beneath him, the Gulfs roared their rage.
The voice cam e again, cultivated but unm elodious.
"M r. D'Am our."
"Harry," said Dorothea.
At that word, from tha t voice, he stop ped falling; felt himself borne up. H e opened his eyes. H e was lying on a so lid
floor, his head inches fro m the b lank television screen. T he flowers were all in place aro und the roo m, Swann in his
casket, and God - if the rumours were to be believed - in his Heaven.
"I'm alive," he said.
He had quite an audience for his resurrection. Dorothea of course, and two strangers. One, the owner of the voice
he'd first heard, stood close to the door. His features were unremarkable, except for his brows and lashes, which
were pale to the point of invisibility. His female companion stood nearby. She shared with him this distressing
banality, stripped ba re of any feature that offered a clue to their natures.
"H elp him up, angel," the man said, and the woma n bent to com ply. She was stronger tha n she looked, readily
hauling Harry to his feet. He had vo mited in his strange sleep. H e felt dirty and ridiculous.
"W hat the hell happened? " he asked, as the woman escorted him to the chair. He sat down.
"He tried to poison you," the man said.
"Who did?"
"V alentin, of course."
"Valentin?"
"He's gone," Dorothea said. "Just disappeared." She was shaking. "I heard you call out, and came in here to find you
on the floor. I tho ught you were going to cho ke."
"It's all right," sa id the m an, "everything is in order now."
"Yes," said Do rothea, clearly reassured by his bland smile. "This is the lawyer I was telling you about, Harry. Mr.
Butterfield."
Harry wiped his mouth. "Please to meet you," he said.
"Why don't we all go downstairs?" Butterfield said.
"And I can pa y Mr. D'Am our what he's due."
"It's all right," H arry said , "I never take my fee until the job 's done."
"B ut it is done," B utterfield sa id. "Y our services are no longer required he re."
Harry threw a glance at Dorothea. She was plucking a withe red anthurium from an otherwise healthy spra y.
"I was contracted to stay with the bod y -"
"T he arrangements for the d isposal of Sw ann's bo dy have bee n mad e," B utterfield returned. His courtesy was o nly
just intact. "Isn't that right, Dorothea?"
"It's the mid dle of the night," Harry pro tested. " Yo u won 't get a crem ation until tomo rrow morning at the earliest."
Thank you for your help," Dorothea said. "But I'm sure everything will be fine now that Mr. Butterfield has arrived.
Just fine."

Butterfield turned to his companion.
"Why don't you go out and find a cab for Mr. D'Amour?" he said. Then, looking at Harry: "We don't want you
walking the streets, do we?"
All the way downstairs, and in the hallway as Butterfield paid him off, Harry was willing Dorothea to contradict the
lawyer and tell him she wanted Harry to stay. But she didn't even offer him a word of farewell as he was ushered out
of the house. The two hundred dollars he'd been given were, of course, more than adequate recompense for the few
hours of idleness he'd spent there, but he would happily have burned all the bills for one sign that Dorothea gave a
dam n that they were parting. Q uite clearly she did not. On p ast exp erience it would take his bruise d ego a full
twenty-four hours to recover from such indifference.
He got ou t of the cab on 3rd around 83rd Street, and wa lked through to a b ar on Lexington where he knew he could
put half a bottle of bourbon between himself and the dreams he'd had.
It was well after one. The street was deserted, except for him, and for the echo his footsteps had recently acquired.
He turned the corner into Lexington, and waited. A few beats later, Valentin rounded the same corner. Harry took
hold of him by his tie.
"Not a bad noose," he said, hauling the man off his heels.
Valentin made no attempt to free himself. "Thank God you're alive," he said.
"No thanks to you," Harry said. "What did you put in the drink?"
"Nothing," Valentin insisted. "Why should I?"
"So how come I found myself on the floor? How come the bad dreams?"
"Butterfield," Valentin said. "Whatever you dreamt, he brought with him, believe me. I panicked as soon as I heard
him in the house, I admit it. I know I should have warned you, but I knew if I didn't get out quickly I wouldn't get
out at all."
"Are you telling me he would have killed you?"
"Not personally; but yes." Harry looked incred ulous.
"W e go w ay bac k, him and me."
"He's welcome to you," Harry said, letting go of the tie. "I'm too damn tired to take any more of this shit." He turned
from Valentin and bega n to walk away.
"Wait -" said the other man, "- I know I wasn't too sweet with you back at the house, but you've got to understand,
things are going to get bad. For both of us."
"I thought you said it was all over bar the shouting?"
"I thought it was. I thought we had it all sewn up. Then Butterfield arrived and I realised how naive I was being.
They're not go ing to let Swann rest in peace. N ot now, not ever. W e have to save him, D 'Amour."
Harry stopped walking and studied the man's face. T o pass him in the street, he m used, you wo uldn't have taken him
for a lunatic.
"Did Butterfield go upstairs?" Valentin enquired.
"Yes he did. Why?"
"Do you remember if he approached the casket?"
Harry shook his head.
"Good," said Valentin. "Then the defences are holding, which gives us a little time. Swann was a fine tactician, you
know. But he could be careless. That was how they caught him. Sheer carelessness. He knew they were coming for
him. I told him outright, I said we should cancel the remaining performances and go home. At least he had some
sanctuary there ."
"You think he was murdered?"
"Jesus Christ," said Valentin, almost despairing of H arry, "o f course he was murdered."
"So he's past saving, right? T he ma n's dead ."
"D ead; yes. Past saving? no."
"Do you talk gibberish to everyone?"
Valentin put his hand on H arry's shoulder, "Oh no," he said, with unfeigned sincerity. "I don't trust anyone the wa y I
trust you."
"This is very sudden," said Harry. "May I ask why?"
"Because you're in this up to your neck, the way I am," Valentin replied.
"No I'm not," said Harry, ,but Valentin ignored the denial, and went on with his talk. "At the moment we don't know
how many o f them there are, of course. T hey might simply have se nt Butterfield, but I think that's unlikely."
"Who's Butterfield with? The Mafia?"
"W e should be so lucky," said Valentin. He reached in his pocket and pulled out a piece of paper. "This is the

wom an Sw ann was with," he said, 'the night at the the atre. It's possible she knows som ething o f their strength."
There was a witness?"
"She d idn't come forward , but yes, there was. I was his procurer you see. I helped arrange his several adulteries, so
that none ever embarrassed him. See if you can get to her -" He stopped abruptly. Somewhere close by, music was
being played . It sound ed like a drunken jazz b and extemporising on bagp ipes; a wheezing, ram bling cacophony.
Valentin's face instantly became a portrait of distress. "God help us . . ." he said softly, and began to back away from
Harry.
"What's the problem?"
"Do you know how to pray?" Valentin asked him as he retreated down 83rd Street. The volume of the music was
rising with every interval.
"I haven't prayed in twenty years," Harry replied.
"Then learn," came the response, and Va lentin turned to run.
As he did so a ripple of da rkness moved down the street from the north, d imming the lustre of bar-signs and streetlamps as it came. Neon announcements suddenly guttered and died; there were protests out of upstairs windows as
the lights failed and, as if encouraged by the curses, the music took on a fresh and yet more hectic rhythm. Abov e his
head Harry heard a wailing sound, and looked up to see a ragged silhouette against the clouds which trailed tendrils
like a man o" war as it descended upon the stree t, leaving the stench of rotting fish in its wake. Its target was clea rly
Valentin. He shouted above the wail and the music and the panic from the black-out, but no sooner had he yelled
than he heard Valentin sho ut out from the d arkness; a plea ding cry that was rudely cut short.
He stood in the murk, his feet unwilling to carry him a step nearer the place from which the plea had come. The
smell still stung his nostrils; nosing it, his nausea returned. And then, so did the lights; a wave of power igniting the
lamps and the bar-signs as it washed back down the street. It reached Harry, and moved on to the spot where he had
last seen Valentin. It was deserted; indeed the sidewalk was empty all the way down to the next intersection.
The drivelling jazz had stopped.
Eyes peeled for man, beast, or the remnants of either, Harry wandered do wn the sidewalk. Twenty yards from where
he had been standing the concrete was wet. Not with blood, he was pleased to see; the fluid was the colour of bile,
and stank to high heaven. Amongst the splashes were several slivers of what might have been human tissue.
Evidently Valentin had fought, and succeeded in opening a wound in his attacker. There were mo re traces of the
bloo d further down the sid ewalk, as if the injure d thing had crawled some way b efore taking flight again. W ith
Valentin, presumably. In the face o f such strength H arry kne w his me agre p owers would have availed him not at all,
but he felt guilty nevertheless. He'd heard the cry - seen the assailant swoop - and yet fear had sealed his soles to the
ground.
He'd last felt fear the equal of this in Wyckoff Street, when Mimi Lom ax's demon-lover had finally thrown off any
pretence to huma nity. The roo m had filled with the stink of ether and huma n dirt, and the d emo n had stood there in
its appalling nakedness and sho wn him scene s that had turned his bo wels to water. They were with him no w, those
scenes. They would be with him forever. He looked down at die scrap of paper Valentin had given him: the name
and address had been rapidly scrawled, but they were just decipherable.
A wise man, H arry rem inded himself, wo uld screw this no te up and thro w it dow n into the gutter. B ut if the events
in Wyckoff Street had taught him anything, it was that once touched by such malignancy as he had seen and dreamt
in the last few hours, there could be no casual disposal of it. He had to follow it to its source, however repugnant that
thought was, and make with it whatever bargains the strength of his hand allowed.
There was no goo d time to do business like this: the present would have to suffice. He walked back to Lexington and
caught a cab to the address on the paper. He got no response from the bell marked Bernstein, but roused the
doorman, and engaged in a frustrating debate with him through the glass door. The man was angry to have been
raised at such an hour; Miss Bernstein was not in her apartment, he insisted, and remained untouched even when
Harry intimated that there might be so me life-or-death urgen cy in the m atter. It was only when he p roduced his
wallet that the fellow displayed the least flicker of concern. Finally, he let Harry in.
"She's not up there," he said, pocketing the bills. "She's not been in fo r days."
Harry took the elevator: his shins were aching, and his back too. He wanted sleep; bourbon, then sleep. There was no
reply at the apartment as the doorman had predicted, but he kept knocking, and calling her.
"Miss Bernstein? Are you there?"
There was no sign of life from within; not at least, until he said:
"I want to talk about Swann."
He heard an intake of breath, close to the door.
"Is someb ody there? " he asked. "Please answer. There's nothing to be afraid of."

After several seconds a slurred and melancholy vo ice murmured: "Swann's dead."
At least she wasn't, Harry tho ught. W hateve r forces had snatche d V alentin away, they had no t yet reach ed this
corner of Manhattan. "May I talk to you?" he requested.
"No ," she replied. Her voice was a candle flame on the verge of extinction.
"Just a few questions, Barbara."
"I'm in the tiger's belly," the slow reply ca me, "and it doesn't want me to let you in."
Perhaps they had got here before him.
"Can't you rea ch the d oor?" he coa xed her. "It's not so far. . ."
"But it's eaten me," she said.
"T ry, Barbara. The tiger w on't mind . Reach."
There was silence from the other side of the door, then a shuffling sound. Was she doing as he had requested? It
seemed so. He heard her fingers fumbling with the catch.
"T hat's it," he encouraged her. "C an you turn it? T ry to turn it."
At the last instant he thought: suppose she's telling the truth, and there is a tiger in there with her? It was too late for
retreat, the door was opening. There was no animal in the hallway. Just a woman, and the smell of dirt. She had
clearly neither washed nor changed her clothes since fleeing from the theatre. The evening gown she wore was
soiled and torn, her skin was grey with grime. He stepped into the apartment. She moved down the hallway away
from him, desperate to avoid his touch.
"It's all right," he said, 'there 's no tiger here."
Her wide eyes were almost em pty; what presence ro ved there was lost to sanity.
"O h there is," she said, I'm in the tige r. I'm in it forever."
As he had neither the time nor the skill required to dissuade her from this madness, he decided it was wiser to go
with it.
"How did you get there?" he asked her. "Into the tiger? Was it when you were with Swann?"
She nodded.
"You remember that, do you?"
"O h yes."
"What do you remember?"
"There was a sword; it fell. He was picking up -" She stopped and frowned.
"Picking up what?"
She seemed suddenly more distracted than ever. "How can you hear me," she wondered , "when I'm in the tiger? Are
you in the tiger too?
"M aybe I am," he said, not wanting to analyse the metap hor too closely.
"W e're here foreve r, you know," she informed him. "W e'll never be let out."
"Who told you that?"
She didn't reply, but cocked her head a little. "Can you hear?" she said.
"Hear?"
She took another step back down the hallway. Harry listened, but he could hear nothing. The growing agitation on
Barbara's face was sufficient to send him back to the front door and op en it, however. The elevator was in operation.
He could hear its soft hum across the landing. Worse: the lights in the hallway and on the stairs were deteriorating;
the bulbs losing power with every foot the elevator ascended.
He turned back into the apartment and went to take hold of Barbara's wrist. She made no p rotest. Her eyes were
fixed on the doorway through which she seemed to know her judgement would come.
"We'll take the stairs," he told her, and led her out on to the landing. The lights were within an ace of failing. He
glanced up at the floor numbers being ticked off above the elevator doors. Was this the top floor they were on, or
one shy of it? He couldn't remember, and there was no time to think before the lights went out entirely. He stumbled
across the unfamiliar territory of the landing with the girl in tow, hoping to God he'd find the stairs before the
elevator reached this floor. Barbara wanted to loiter, but he bullied her to pick up her pace. As his foot found the top
stair the elevator finished its ascent.
The doors hissed open, and a cold fluorescence washed the landing. He couldn't see its source, nor did he wish to,
but its effect was to reveal to the naked eye every stain and blemish, every sign of decay and creeping rot that the
paintwork sought to camouflage. The show stole Harry's attention for a moment only, then he took a firmer hold of
the woman's hand and they began their descent. Barbara was not interested in escape however, but in events on the
landing. Thus occupied she tripped and fell heavily against Harry. The two would have toppled but that he caught
hold of the banister. Angered, he turned to her. They were out of sight of the landing, but the light crept down the
stairs and washed over Barbara's face. Beneath its uncharitable scrutiny Harry saw decay busy in her. Saw rot in her

teeth, and the death in her skin and hair and nails. No do ubt he would have appeared m uch the same to her, were she
to have looked, but she was still staring back over her shoulder and up the stairs. The light-source was on the move.
Vo ices accom panied it.
"The door's open," a woman said.
"What are you waiting for?" a voice replied. It was Butterfield.
Harry held both breath and wrist as the light- source moved again, towards the door presumably, and then was
partially eclipsed as it disa ppe ared into the apartm ent.
"W e have to be quick," he told Barbara. She went with him down three or four steps and then, without warning, her
hand leapt for his face, nails opening his cheek. He let go of her hand to protect himself, and in that instant she was
away - back up the stairs.
He cursed and stumbled in pursuit of her, but her former sluggishness had lifted; she was startlingly nimble. By the
dregs of light from the land ing he watched her reach the top of the stairs and d isapp ear from sight.
"H ere I am ," she called o ut as she went.
He stood immobile on the stairway, unable to decide whether to go or stay, and so unable to move at all. Ever since
W yckoff Street he'd hated stairs. Momentarily the light from above flared up, throwing the shadows of the banisters
across him; then it died again. He put his hand to his face. She had raised weals, but there was little blood. What
could he hope from her if he went to her aid? Only more of the same. She was a lost cause.
Even as he despaired of her he heard a sound from round the corner at the head of the stairs; a soft sound that might
have been either a footstep or a sigh. Had she escaped their influence after all? Or perhap s not even reached the
apartment door, but thought better of it and about-turned? Even as he was weighing up the
odd s he heard her say:
"Help me ..." The voice was a ghost of a ghost; but it was indisputably her, and she was in terror.
He reached for his .38, and started up the stairs again. Ev en be fore he had turned the corner he felt the nap e of his
neck itch as his hackles rose.
She was there. But so was the tiger. It stood on the landing, mere feet from Harry, its body humming with latent
power. Its eyes were molten; its open maw impossibly large. And there, already in its vast throat, was Barbara. He
met her eyes out of the tiger's mouth, and saw a flicker of com prehension in them that was worse than any mad ness.
Then the b east threw its head back and fo rth to settle its p rey in its gut. She had been swallow ed whole, appa rently.
There was no blood on the landing, nor about the tiger's muzzle; only the appalling sight of the girl's face
disap pearing do wn the tunnel of the animal's throat.
She lo osed a final cry from the b elly of the thing, and as it rose it seemed to H arry that the beast attemp ted a grin. Its
face crinkled up grotesquely, the eyes narrowing like those of a laughing Buddha, the lips peeling back to expose a
sickle of brilliant teeth. Behind this d isplay the cry was fina lly hushed . In that instant the tiger leapt. Harry fired into
its devouring bulk and as the shot met its flesh the leer and the maw and the whole striped mass of it unwove in a
single beat. Suddenly it was gone, and there was only a drizzle of pastel confetti spiralling down around him. The
shot had aroused interest. There were raised voices in one or two of the apartments, and the light that had
accompanied Butterfield from the elevator was brightening through the open door of the Bernstein residence. He was
almost tempted to stay and see the ligh t-bringer, but discretion bettered his curiosity, and he turned and m ade his
descent, taking the stairs two and three at a time. The confetti tumbled after him, as if it had a life of its own.
Barbara's life, perhaps; transformed into paper pieces and tosse d away.
He reached the lobb y breathless. T he do orman was standing there, staring up the stairs vacantly.
"Somebody get shot?" he enquired.
"N o," said Harry, "eaten."
As he headed for the door he heard the elevator start to hum as it descended. Perhaps merely a tenant, coming down
for a pre-dawn stroll. Perhaps not.
He left the doorman as he had found him, sullen and confused, and made his escape into the street, putting two block
lengths between him and the apartment building before he stopped running. They did not bother to come after him.
He was beneath their co ncern, most likely.
So what was he to do now? Valentin was dead, Barbara Bernstein too. He was none the wiser now than he'd been at
the outset, except that he'd learned again the lesson he'd been taught in W yckoff Street: that when dealing with the
Gulfs it was wiser never to believe your eyes. The moment you trusted your senses, the moment you believed a tiger
to be a tiger, you were half theirs. Not a complicated lesson, but it seemed he had forgotten it, like a fool, and it had
taken two deaths to teach it to him afresh. M aybe it would be simpler to have the rule tatto oed on the back of his
hand, so that he couldn't check the time withou t being remind ed: Ne ver believe you r eyes.
The principle was still fresh in his mind as he walked back towards his apartment and a man stepped out of the
doorway and said:

"H arry."
It looked like Valentin; a wo unde d V alentin, a V alentin who'd been d ismem bered and sewn to gether again b y a
com mittee o f blind surgeons, but the same man in essenc e. But then the tiger had looked like a tiger, hadn't it?
"It's me," he said.
"O h no," Harry said. " No t this time."
"W hat are you talking abo ut? It's Valentin."
"So prove it."
The other man looked puzzled. "T his is no time for games," he said, "we're in d esperate straits."
Harry took his .38 from his pocket and pointed at Valentin's chest. "Prove it or I shoot you," he said.
"Are you out of your mind?"
"I saw you torn apa rt."
"Not quite," said Valentin. His left arm was swathed in makeshift bandaging from fingertip to mid-bicep. "It was
touch and go . . ."he said,". . . but everything has its Achilles" hee l. It's just a question of find ing the right spot."
Harry peered at the man. He wanted to believe that this was indeed Valentin, but it was too incredible to believe that
the frail form in front of him could have survived the monstrosity he'd seen on 83rd Street. No; this was another
illusion. Like the tiger: paper and malice.
The man broke Harry's train of thought. "Your steak . . ."he said.
"My steak?"
"You like it almost burned," Valentin said. "I pro- tested, remember?"
Harry remembered. "Go on," he said.
"And you said yo u hated the sight of blood. Even, if it wasn't your own ."
"Y es," said Harry. H is doubts were lifting. "T hat's right."
"Y ou asked me to prove I'm V alentin. T hat's the best I can d o." H arry was almo st persuaded. "In Go d's name,"
Valentin said,"do we have to debate this standing on the street?"
"Y ou'd better co me in."
The apartment was small, but tonight it felt more stifling than ever. Valentin sat himself down with a good view of
the do or. H e refused spirits or first-aid. H arry helped himself to bourbon. He was on his third shot when V alentin
finally said:
"W e have to go b ack to the house, H arry."
"What?"
"W e have to claim Swan n's bod y before Butterfield."
"I did my b est already. It's not my business any more."
"So you leave Swann to the Pit?" Valentin said.
"She doesn't care, why should I?"
"You mean Dorothea? She doesn't know what Swann was involved with. That's why she's so trusting. She has
suspicions maybe, but, insofar as it is possible to be guiltless in all of this, she is." He paused to adjust the position
of his injured arm. "She was a prostitute, you know. I don't suppose she told you that. Swann once said to me he
married her because o nly prostitutes kno w the value of love."
Harry let this apparent paradox go.
"Why did she stay with him?" he asked. "He wasn't exactly faithful, was he?"
"She loved him," Valentin replied. "It's not unh eard of."
"And you?"
"Oh I loved him too, in spite of his stupidities. That's why we have to help him. If Butterfield and his associates get
their hands on Swan n's mortal remains, there'll be all Hell to pay."
"I know. I got a glimpse at the Bernstein place." "What did you see?"
"So mething and nothing ," said Harry. "A tiger, I thought; on ly it wasn't."
"The old paraphernalia," Valentin commented.
"And there was something else with B utterfield. S ome - thing that she d light: I didn't see what."
"T he Castrate," Valentin mu ttered to himself, clearly d iscom fited. "W e'll have to b e care ful."
He stood up, the m ovement causing him to w ince. "I think we should be on our way, H arry."
"Are you paying me for this?" Harry inquired, "or am I doing it all for love?"
"You're doing it because of what happened at Wyckoff Street," came the softly-spoken reply. "Because you lost poor
Mimi Lomax to the G ulfs, and you don't want to lose Swann. That is, if you've not alread y done so."
They caught a cab on Madison Avenue and headed back uptown to 61st Street, keeping their silence as they rode.
Harry had half a hundred questions to ask of Valentin. Who was Butterfield, for one, and what was Swann's crime

was that he be pursued to death and b eyond? So m any puzzles. B ut Valentin loo ked sick and unfit for plying with
questions. Besides, Harry sensed that the more he knew the less enthusiastic he would be about the journey they
were now taking.
"W e have perhaps o ne ad vantag e -" V alentin said as they approached 61st S treet. "T hey can't be exp ecting this
frontal attack. B utterfield p resum es I'm dead, and proba bly thinks yo u're hiding your he ad in m ortal terror."
"I'm wo rking on it."
"You're not in danger," Valentin replied, "at least not the way Swann is. If they were to take you apart limb by limb
it would be no thing be side the torme nts they have waiting for the magician."
"Illusionist," Harry corrected him, but Valentin shook his head.
"M agician he was; magician he will always be."
The drive r interrup ted before Harry could quote D orothea on the sub ject.
"What number you people want?" he said.
"Just drop us here on the right," Valentin instructed him. "And wait for us, understand?"
"Sure."
Valentin turne d to H arry. "G ive the m an fifty dollars."
"Fifty?
"Do you want him to wait or not?"
Harry counted four tens and ten singles into the driver's hand.
"You'd better keep the engine running," he said.
"Anything to oblige," the driver grinned.
Harry joine d V alentin o n the sidewalk and they walke d the twenty-five yards to the house . The street was still noisy,
despite the hour: the party that Harry had seen in preparation half a night ago was at its height. There was no sign of
life at the Swann residence however.
Perhaps they do n't expect us, Harry thought. Certainly this hea d-on assault was about the most foolhardy tactic
imaginable, and as such might catch the enemy off- guard. But were such forces ever off-guard? Was there ever a
minute in their maggo ty lives when their eyelid s droop ed and sleep tame d them for a spa ce? No. In Harry's
experience it was only the good w ho needed sleep ; iniquity and its practitioners we re awa ke eve ry eager moment,
planning fresh felonies.
"How do we get in?" he asked as they stood outside the house.
"I have the key," Valentin replied, and went to the door.
There was no retreat now. The key was turned, the door was open, and they were stepping out of the comparative
safety of the street. The house was as dark within as it had appeared from without. There was no sound of human
presence on any of the floors. Was it possible that the defences Swann had laid around his corpse had indeed
rebuffed B utterfield, and that he and his co horts had retreated? V alentin quashed such misplaced optimism almost
immediately, taking hold of Harry's arm and leaning close to whisper:
"They're here." This was not the time to ask Valentin how he knew, but Harry made a mental note to enquire when,
or rather if, they got out of the house w ith their tongues still in their heads.
Valentin was alread y on the stairs. Harry, his eyes still accusto ming themselves to the vestigial light that crep t in
from the street, crossed the hallway after him. The other man moved confidently in the gloom, and Harry was glad of
it. Without Valentin plucking at his sleeve, and guiding him around the half-landing he might well have crippled
himself.
Despite what Valentin had said, there was no more sound or sight of occupancy up here than there had been below,
but as they advanced towards the master bedroom where Swann lay, a rotten tooth in Harry's lower jaw that had
lately been quiescent began to throb afresh, and his bowels ached to break wind. The anticipation was crucifying. He
felt a barely suppressible urge to yell out, and to oblige the enemy to show its hand, if indeed it had hands to show.
Valentin had reached the door. He turned his head in Harry's direction, and even in the murk it was apparent that fear
was taking its toll on him too . His skin glistened ; he stank of fresh sw eat.
He po inted towards the door. Harry nodded. He was as ready as he was ever going to be. Valentin reached for the
door handle. The sound of the lock-mechanism seemed deafeningly loud, but it brought no response from anywhere
in the house. The door swung open, and the heady scent of flowers met them. They had begun to decay in the forced
heat of the house; there was a rankness beneath the perfume. More welcom e than the scent was the light. The
curtains in the room had not been entirely drawn, and the street-lamps described the interior: the flowers massed like
clouds around the casket; the chair where Harry had sat, the Calvados bottle beside it; the mirror above the fireplace
showing the ro om its secret self.
Valentin was already moving across to the casket, and Harry heard him sigh as he set eyes on his old master. He
wasted little time, but immediately set to lifting the lower half of the casket lid. It defeated his single arm however

and Harry went to his assistance, eager to get the job done and be away. Touching the solid wood of the casket
brought his nightmare bac k with breath-snatching force: the Pit op ening b eneath him, the illusionist rising from his
bed like a sleep er unwillingly woken. T here was no such spectacle now, however. Indeed a little life in the corpse
might have m ade the job easier. S wann was a b ig man, and his limp body w as uncoop erative to a fault. T he simp le
act of lifting him from his casket took all their breath and attention. He came at last, though reluctantly, his long
limbs flopping abo ut.
"N ow . . ." said Valentin " . . . downstairs."
As they moved to the door something in the street ignited, or so it seemed, for the interior suddenly brightened. The
light was not kind to their burden. It revealed the crudity of the cosmetics applied to Swann's face, and the
burgeoning putrescence beneath. Harry had an instant only to appreciate these felicities, and then the light
brightened again, and he realised that it wasn't outside, but in.
He looked up at Valentin, and almost desp aired. The luminescence was even less charitable to servant than to
master; it seemed to strip the flesh from Valentin's face. Harry caught only a glimpse of what it revealed beneath events stole his attention an instant later - but he saw enough to kno w that had V alentin no t been his acco mplice in
this venture he might well have run from him.
"Get him out of here!" Valentin yelled.
He let go of Swann's legs, leaving Harry to steer Swann single-handed. The corpse p roved recalcitrant however.
Harry had only made two cursing steps towards the exit when things took a turn for the cataclysmic.
He heard V alentin unloose an oath, and looked up to see that the mirror had given up all pretence to reflection, and
that som ething was mo ving up from its liquid depths, bringing the light with it.
"What is it?" Harry breathed.
"The Castrate," came the reply. "Will you go?"
There was no time to obey Valentin's panicked instruction however, before the hidden thing broke the plane of the
mirror and invaded the room. Harry had been wrong. It did not carry the light with it as it came: it was the light. Or
rather, some holocaust blazed in its bowels, the glare of which escaped through the creature's body by whatever
route it could. It had once been human; a mountain of a man with the belly and the breasts of a neolithic Venus. But
the fire in its body had twisted it out of true, breaking out through its palms and its navel, burning its mouth and
nostrils into one ragged hole. It had, as its name implied, been unsexed; from that hole too, light spilled. By it, the
decay of the flo wers sp eeded into seconds. T he blo ssoms withered and died. The roo m was filled in mo ments with
the stench of rotting vegetable matter.
Harry heard Valentin call his name, once, and again. Only then did he remember the body in his arms. He dragged
his eyes from the hovering Castrato, and carried Swann another yard. The door was at his back, and open. He
dragged his burd en out into the landing as the Ca strato kicked over the cask et. He heard the din, and then shou ts
from Valentin. There followed another terrible commotion, and the high-pitched voice of the Castrate, talking
through that hole in its face.
"Die and be happy," it said, and a hail of furniture was flung against the wall with such force chairs embedded
themselves in the plaster. Valentin had escaped the assault however, or so it seemed, for an instant later Harry heard
the Ca strato shriek. It was an ap palling sound : pitiful and revolting. He would have stopp ed his ears, but he had his
hand s full.
He had almo st reached the top of the stairs. Dragging Swann a few steps further he laid the body down. T he
Castrate's light was not dimmed, despite its complaints; it still flickered on the bedroom wall like a midsummer
thunderstorm. For the third time tonight - once on 83rd Street, and again on the stairs of the Bernstein place - Harry
hesitated. If he went back to help Valentin perhaps there would be worse sights to see than ever Wyckoff Street had
offered. But there could be no retreat this time. Without Valentin he was lost. He raced back do wn the landing and
flung open the door. The air was thick; the lamps rocking. In the middle of the room hung the Castrato, still defying
gravity. It had hold of V alentin by his hair. Its other hand was p oised, first and midd le fingers spread like twin horns,
about to stab out its captive's eyes.
Harry pulled his .38 from his pocket, aimed, and fired. He had always been a bad shot when given more than a
moment to take aim, but in extremis, when instinct governed rational thought, he was not half bad. This was such an
occasion. The bullet found the Castrate's neck, and opened another wound. More in surprise than pain perhaps, it let
Valentin go. There was a leakage of light from the hole in its neck, and it put its hand to the place.
Valentin was quickly on his feet.
"Again," he called to H arry. "F ire again!"
Harry obeyed the instruction. His second bullet pierced the creature's chest, his third its belly. This last wound
seemed particularly traumatic; the distended flesh, ripe for bursting, broke - and the trickle of light that spilled from
the wound rapidly became a flood as the ab dom en split.

Again the Castrate howled, this time in panic, and lost all control of its flight. It reeled like a pricked balloon towards
the ceiling, its fat hands de sperately attempting to stem the mutiny in its substance. But it had reac hed critical mass;
there was no making good the damage done. Lumps of its flesh began to break from it. Valentin, either too stunned
or too fascinated, stoo d staring up at the disintegration w hile rains o f cooked meat fell around him. Harry took hold
of him and hauled him back towards the door.
The Castrate was finally earning its nam e, unloosing a deso late ear-piercing note. Harry didn't wait to watch its
demise, but slammed the bedroom door as the voice reached an awesome pitch, and the windows smashed.
Valentin was grinning.
"Do you know what we did?" he said.
"N ever m ind. Le t's just get the fuck out of here."
The sight of Swann's corpse at the top of the stairs seemed to chasten Valentin. Harry instructed him to assist, and he
did so as efficiently as his dazed condition allowed. Together they began to escort the illusionist down the stairs. As
they reached the front door there was a final shriek from above, as the Castrate came apart at the seams. Then
silence.
The com motion had not gone unnoticed. Revellers had appeared from the house oppo site, a crowd of late-night
pedestrians had assembled on the sidewalk.
"Some p arty," one of them said as the trio emerged. Harry had half expected the cab to have deserted them, but he
had reckoned without the driver's curiosity. The man was out of his vehicle and staring up at the first floor window.
"Does he need a hospital?" he asked as they bundled Swann into the back of the cab.
"N o," H arry returned. "He's about as good as he's going to get."
"W ill you drive?" said Valentin.
"Sure. Just tell m e where to."
"Anywhere," came the weary reply. "Just get out of here.""
"H old it a m inute," the drive r said, "I don't want any tro uble."
"Then you'd better move," said Valentin. The driver met his passenger's gaze. Whatever he saw there, his next words
were:
"I'm driving," and they took off along East 6st like the pro verbial bat out of hell.
"W e did it, Harry," Valentin said when they'd been travelling for a few minutes. "W e got him back."
"And that thing? T ell me about it."
"T he Castrato? W hat's to tell? B utterfield m ust have left it as a watchdog, until he could bring in a technician to
decode Swan n's defenc e mechanisms. W e were lucky. It was in need of milking . That makes them unstable."
"How do you know so much about all of this?"
"It's a long story," sa id Valentin. "And not for a cab ride."
"So what no w? W e can't drive rou nd in circles all night."
Valentin looked across at the body that sat between them, prey to every whim of the cab's suspension and roadmenders" craft. Gently, he put Swann's hands on his lap.
"Y ou're right of course," he said. " W e have to make arrangements for the crema tion, as swiftly as possib le."
The cab bounced across a pot-hole. Valentin's face tightened.
"Are you in pain?" Harry asked him.
"I've been in worse."
"W e cou ld go back to my apartm ent, and rest there."
Valentin sho ok his head. "Not very c lever," he said, "it's the first place they'll look."
"M y offices, then -"
"T he second place ."
"W ell, Jesus, this cab's going to run out of gas ev entually."
At this point the driver intervened.
"Say, did you people mention cremation?"
"Maybe," Valentin replied.
"O nly my brother-in-law's got a funeral b usiness o ut in Qu eens."
"Is that so?" said H arry.
"V ery reasonable rates. I can recommend him. N o shit."
"Could you contact him now? Valentin said.
"It's two in the morning."
"W e're in a hurry."
The driver reached up and adjusted his mirror; he was looking at Swann.
"You don't mind me asking, do you?" he said. "But is that a body you got back there?"

"It is," said Harry. "And he's getting impatient."
The driver made a whooping sound. "Shit!" he said. "I've had a woman drop twins in that seat; I've had whores do
business; I even had an alligator back there one time. But this beats them all!" He pondered for a moment, then said:
"You kill him, did you?"
"N o," said Harry.
"Guess we'd be heading for the East River if you had, eh?"
"T hat's right. W e just want a decent cremation. An d quickly."
That's understandable."
"What's your name?" Harry asked him.
"W inston Jowitt. B ut everybod y calls me Byro n. I'm a po et, see? Leastw ays, I am at week ends."
"B yron."
"See, any other driver would be freaked out, right? Finding two guys with a body in the back seat. But the way I see
it, it's all material."
"Fo r the po ems."
"Right," said Byron. "The Muse is a fickle mistress. You have to take it where you find it, you know? Speaking of
which, you gentlemen got any idea where you want to go?"
"M ake it your offices," V alentin told Harry. "A nd he can ca ll his brother-in-law."
"Go od," said Harry. Then, to Byron:
"H ead west along 45 th Street to 8th."
"You got it," said Byron, and the cab's speed doubled in the space of twenty yards. "Say," he said, "you fellows
fancy a poem?"
"N ow? " said Harry.
"I like to impro vise," B yron replied. "Pick a sub ject. Any subject."
Valentin hugged his wounded arm close. Quietly, he said: "How about the end of the world?"
"G ood subject," the p oet replied, "just give me a minute or two ."
"So soon? " said Valentin.
They took a circuitous route to the offices, while Byron Jowitt tried a selection of rhymes for Apocalypse. The sleepwalkers were o ut on 45th S treet, in search of one high o r another; som e sat in the doorw ays, one lay sprawled across
the sidewalk. None of them gave the cab or its occupants more than the briefest perusal. Harry unlocked the front
door and he and Byron carried Swann up to the third floor.
The office was home from home: cramped and chaotic. They put Swann in the swivel chair behind the furred coffee
cups and the alimony demands heaped on the desk. He looked easily the healthiest of the quartet. Byron was
sweating like a bull after the climb; H arry felt - and surely loo ked - as though he hadn't slept in sixty days; V alentin
sat slumped in the clients" chair, so drained of vitality he might have been at death's door.
"You look terrible," Harry told him.
"N o matter," he said. "It'll all be done soon."
Harry turned to Byron. "How about calling this brother-in-law of yours?"
W hile Byron set to doing so, Harry returned his attention to Valentin.
"I've got a first-aid box somewhere about," he said. "Shall I bandage up that arm?"
"T hank you, but no. Like you, I hate the sight of blood . Especially my own."
Byro n was o n the phone , chastising his brother-in- law fo r his ingratitude. "W hat's your b eef? I got you a client! I
know the time, fo r Christ's sake, but b usiness is b usiness . . ."
"Tell him we'll pay double his normal rate," Valentin said.
"You hear that, Mel? Twice your usual fee. So get over here, will you?" He gave the address to his brother-in- law,
and put down the receiver. "He's coming over," he announced.
"N ow? " said Harry.
"Now," Byron glanced at his watch. "My belly thinks my throat's cut. How about we eat? You got an all night place
near here?"
"T here's one a blo ck do wn from here."
"Yo u want food?" B yron asked Valentin.
"I don't think so," he said. He was lo oking worse by the m ome nt.
"OK," Byron said to Harry, "just you and me then. You got ten I could borrow?"
Harry gave him a b ill, the keys to the street d oor and an order for doughnuts and coffee, and B yron went on his way.
Only when he'd gone did Harry wish he'd convinced the poet to stave off his hunger pangs a while. The office was
distressingly quiet without him: Swann in residence behind the desk, Valentin succumbing to sleep in the other

chair. The hush brought to mind another such silence, during that last, awesome night at the Lomax house when
Mimi's demon-lover, wounded by Father Hesse, had slipped away into the walls for a while, and left them waiting
and waiting, knowing it would com e bac k but no t certain o f when o r how. Six hours they'd sat - Mim i occasionally
breaking the silence with laughter or gibberish - and the first Harry had known of its return was the smell of cooking
excrement, and Mimi's cry of "Sodo mite!" as Hesse surrendered to an act his faith had too long forbidden him. There
had been no more silence then, not for a long space: only Hesse's cries, and Harry's pleas for forgetfulness. They had
all gone unanswered.
It seemed he could hear the demon's voice now; its demands, its invitations. But no; it was only Valentin. The man
was tossing his head back and forth in sleep , his face kn otted up. Su ddenly he started from his chair, o ne wo rd on his
lips:
"Swann"
His eyes opened, and as they alighted on the illusionist's body, which was propped in the chair opposite, tears came
uncontrollably, wracking him. "He's dead," he said, as though in his dream he had forgotten that bitter fact. "I failed
him, D 'Amour. That's why he's dead. Because of my ne gligence."
"You're doing your best for him now," Harry said, though he knew the words were poor compensation. "Nobody
could ask fo r a better friend."
"I was neve r his friend," Valentin said, staring at the corpse with brimm ing eyes. "I always hop ed he'd one day trust
me entirely. But he never did."
"Why not?"
"He couldn't afford to trust anybody. Not in his situation." He wiped his cheeks with the back of his hand.
"M aybe," Harry said , "it's about time you told me what all this is about."
"If you want to hear."
"I want to hea r."
"Very well," said Valentin. "Thirty-two years ago, Swann made a bargain with the Gulfs. He agreed to be an
amb assad or for them if they, in return, gave him magic."
"Magic"
"T he ab ility to perform miracles. T o transform matter. T o bewitch souls. Eve n to drive out God."
"That's a miracle?"
"It's more difficult than you think," Valentin replied.
"So Swann was a genuine magician?"
"Ind eed he was."
"Then why didn't he use his powers?"
"H e did," Valentin replied. "He used them every nigh t, at every p erform ance."
Harry was b affled. "I don't follow."
"Nothing the Prince of Lies offers to humankind is of the least value," Valentin said, "or it wouldn't be offered.
Swann d idn't know that when he first made his Covena nt. But he soo n learned. M iracles are useless. M agic is a
distraction from the real concerns. It's rheto ric. M elodrama ."
"So what exactly are the real concerns?"
"You should know better than I," Valentin replied.
"Fellowship , maybe? C uriosity? Certainly it matters not in the least if water can be mad e into wine, or L azaru s to
live ano ther year."
Harry saw the wisdom of this, but not how it had brought the magician to Broadway. As it was, he didn't need to ask.
Valentin had taken up the story afresh. His tears had cleared with the telling; some trace of animation had crept back
into his features.
"It didn't take Swann long to realise he'd sold his soul for a mess of pottage," he explained. "And when he did he was
inconsolab le. At least he was for a while. Then he b egan to contrive a revenge."
"How?"
"By taking Hell's name in vain. By using the magic which it boasted of as a trivial entertainment, degrading the
pow er of the Gulfs b y passing off their wonder- working as mere illusion. It was, you see, an act o f heroic
perversity. Every time a trick of Swann's was explained away as sleight-of-ha nd, the Gulfs sq uirmed."
"Why didn't they kill him?" Harry said.
"Oh, they tried. Many times. But he had allies. Agents in their camp who warned him of their plots against him. He
escap ed their retribution for ye ars that way."
"Until now?"
"U ntil now," Valentin sighe d. "H e was careless, and so was I. N ow he 's dead, and the Gulfs are itching for him."
"I see."

"But we were not entirely unprepared for this event- uality. He had made his apologies to Heaven; and I dare to hope
he's been forgiven his trespasse s. Pray that he ha s. There's mo re than his salvatio n at stake tonight."
"Yours too?"
"All of us who loved him are tainted," Valentin rep lied, "b ut if we can destro y his physical remains be fore the Gulfs
claim them we may yet avoid the consequences o f his Covenant."
"Why did you wait so long? Why didn't you just cremate him die day he died?"
Their lawyers are not fools. The Covenant spec ifically proscribes a period of lying-in-state. If we had attemp ted to
ignore that clause his so ul would have bee n forfeited autom atically."
"So when is this period up?"
"T hree hours ago, at m idnight," Valentin replied. "T hat's why they're so desp erate, yo u see. A nd so dangerous."
Another poem came to Byron Jowitt as he ambled back up 8th. Avenue, working his way through a tuna salad
sandwich. His Muse was not to be rushed. Poems could take as long as five minutes to be finalised; longer if they
involved a double rhyme. He didn't hurry on his journey back to the offices therefore, but wandered in a dreamy sort
of mood, turning the lines every which way to make them fit. That way he hoped to arrive back with another finished
poem. T wo in one night was damn good going. He had no t perfected the final couplet however, by the time he
reached the door. Ope rating on automatic pilot he fumbled in his pocket for the keys D'Amour had loaned him, and
let himself in. He was about to close the door again when a woman stepped through the gap, smiling at him. She was
a bea uty, and Byro n, being a po et, was a fool for beauty.
"Please," she said to him, " I need your he lp."
"What can I do for you?" said Byron through a mouthful of food.
"Do you know a man by the name of D'Amour? Harry D'Amour?"
"Ind eed I do. I'm going up to his place right now."
"Perhaps you could show m e the way?" the woman asked him, as Byron closed the door.
"Be my pleasure," he replied, and led her ac ross the lobb y to the bottom of the stairs.
"You know, you're very sweet," she told him; and Byron melted.
Valentin stood at the window.
"Something wrong?" Harry asked.
"Just a feeling," Valentin co mmented . "I have a susp icion m aybe the Devil's in Manhattan."
"So what's new?"
"T hat maybe he 's coming for us." As if on c ue there was a knock at the door. Harry jump ed.
"It's all right," V alentin said, "he never knocks."
Harry went to the door, feeling like a fool.
"Is that you, B yron? " he asked before unlo cking it.
"Please," said a voice he thought he'd never hear again.
"H elp me. . ."
He op ened the door. It was Dorothea, of course. She was colourless as water, and as unpredictable. Even before
Harry had invited her across the office threshold a dozen expressions, or hints of such, had crossed her face: anguish,
suspicion, terror. And now, as her eyes alighted upon the body of her beloved Swann, relief and gratitude.
"You do have him," she said, stepping into the office. H arry closed the d oor. T here was a chill from up the stairs.
Thank G od. Thank G od." She took H arry's face in her hands and kissed him lightly on the lips. Only then did she
notice Valentin.
She dro pped her hands.
"What's he doing here?" she asked.
"H e's with me. W ith us."
She looked doubtful. "No," she said.
"W e can trust him."
"I said no! G et him o ut, Harry." T here w as a co ld fury in her; she sho ok with it. "Get him out!"
Valentin stared at her, glassy-eyed. "The lady doth protest too much," he murmured.
Do rothea put her fingers to her lips as if to stifle any further outburst. "I'm sorry," she said, turning back to H arry,
"but you must be to ld what this man is capable of-"
"Without him your husband would still be at the house, Mrs Swann," Harry pointed out. "He's the one you should be
grateful to , not me ."
At this, D orothea's exp ression softened, through bafflement to a new gentility.
"Oh?" she said. Now she looked back at Valentin. "I'm sorry. When you ran from the house I assumed some

com plicity . . ."
"With whom?" Valentin inquired.
She made a tiny shake of her head; then said, "Your arm. Are you hurt?"
"A minor injury," he returned.
"I've already tried to get it reb andaged ," Harry said . "But the ba stard's too stubborn."
"Stubborn I am," V alentin replied, without inflection.
"B ut we'll be finishe d here soo n -" said Harry.
Valentin broke in. "Don't tell her anything," he snapped.
"I'm just going to explain about the brother-in-law -" Harry said.
The brother-in-law?" Dorothea said, sitting down. The sigh of her legs crossing was the most enchanting sound
Harry had heard in twenty-fou r hours. "O h please tell me about the brother-in-law . . ."
Before H arry co uld open his mouth to sp eak, V alentin said: "It's not her, Harry."
The words, spoken without a trace of drama, took a few seconds to make sense. Even when they did, their lunacy
was self-ev ident. H ere she was in the flesh, perfect in eve ry detail.
"What are you talking about?" Harry said.
"H ow much m ore p lainly can I say it?" Valentin
replied. "It's not her. It's a trick. An illusion. T hey kno w where we are, and they sent this up to sp y out ou r defences."
Harry wo uld have laughed, but that these accu sations were bringing tears to Do rothea's eyes.
"Stop it," he told Valentin.
"No , Harry. You think for a moment. All the traps they've laid, all the beasts they've mustered. You suppo se she
could have escaped that?" He moved aw ay from the wind ow toward s Do rothea. "W here's Butterfield? " he sp at.
"Down the hall, waiting for your signal?"
"Shut up," said H arry.
"He's scared to come up here himself, isn't he?" Valentin went on. "Scared of Swann, scared of us, probably, after
what we did to his geld ing."
Dorothea looked at Harry. "Make him stop," she said. Harry halted Valentin's advance with a hand on his bony
chest.
"You heard the lady," he said.
"T hat's no lad y," Valentin replied, his eyes blazing. " I don't know what it is, but it's no lad y."
Dorothea stood up. "I came here because I hoped I'd be safe," she said.
"You are safe," Harry said.
"N ot with him around, I'm no t," she re plied, looking bac k at Valentin. "I think I'd be wiser going."
Harry touched her arm.
"No ," he told her.
"Mr.. D'Amour," she said sweetly, "you've already earned your fee ten times over. Now I think it's time I took
respo nsibility for m y husba nd."
Harry scanned that mercurial face. T here w asn't a trace of deception in it.
"I have a car downstairs," she said. "I wonder. . . could you carry him downstairs for me?"
Harry heard a noise like a cornered dog behind him and turned to see Valentin standing beside Swann's corpse. He
had picked up the heavy-duty cigarette lighter from the desk, and was flicking it. Sparks came, but no flame.
"What the hell are you doing?" Harry demanded.
Valentin didn't look at the speaker, but at Dorothea. "She knows," he said.
He had got the knack of the lighter; the flame flared up.
Dorothea made a small, desperate sound.
"Please don't," she said.
"We'll all burn with him if necessary," Valentin said.
"He's insane," Dorothea's tears had suddenly gone.
"She's right," H arry told Valentin, "yo u're acting like a ma dma n."
"And you're a fool to fall for a few tears!" came the reply. "Can't you see that if she takes him we've lost everything
we've fought for?"
"D on't listen," she murmured. "Y ou know m e, Ha rry. Yo u trust me."
"What's under that face of yours?" Valentin said. "What are you? A Coprolite? Homunculus?"
The nam es meant nothing to H arry. All he knew was the proximity of the wom an at her side; he r hand laid upon his
arm.
"And what about you?" she said to Valentin. Then, more softly, "why don't you show us your wound?" She forsook
the shelter of Harry's side, and crossed to the desk. The lighter flame guttered at her approach. "Go on. . ." she said,

her vo ice no louder than a breath. ". . . I da re you."
She glanced round at Harry. "Ask him, D'Amour," she said. "Ask him to show you what he's got hidden under the
bandages."
"W hat's she talking about?" Harry asked. The glimmer of trepidation in Valentin's eyes was enough to convince
Harry there was merit in Dorothea's request. "Explain," he said.
Valentin didn't get the chance however. Distracted by Harry's demand he was easy prey when Dorothea reached
across the desk and knocked the lighter from his hand. He bent to retrieve it, but she seized on the ad hoc bundle of
bandaging and pulled. It tore, and fell away. She stepped back. "See?" she said.
Valentin stoo d revealed . The crea ture on 83rd Street had torn the sham of hum anity from his arm; the limb bene ath
was a ma ss of blue-black scales. Each digit o f the blistered hand ended in a nail that op ened and closed like a parrot's
beak. He made no attempt to conceal the truth. Shame eclipsed every other response.
"I warned you," she said , "I warned you he wasn't to be trusted ."
Valentin stared at H arry. "I have no exc uses," he said. "I only ask you to believe that I want what's best for S wann."
"H ow can you?" D orothea said. "Y ou're a d emo n."
"M ore than that," Valentin replied, "I'm Swann's Tempter. His familiar; his creature. But I belong to him more than I
ever b elonged to the Gulfs. And I will defy them -" he looked at D orothea, "- and the ir agents."
She turned to Harry. "Y ou have a gun," she said. "Shoot the filth. Y ou mustn't suffer a thing like that to live ."
Harry looked at the pustulent arm; at the clacking fingernails: what further repugnance was there in wait behind the
flesh facade?
"Shoot it," the woman said.
He took his gun from his pocket. Valentin seemed to have shrunk in the moments since the revelation of his true
nature. Now he leaned against the wall, his face slimy with despair.
"Kill me then," he said to Harry, "kill me if I revolt you so much. But Harry, I beg you, don't give Swann to her.
Promise me that. W ait for the driver to come back, and dispose of the bod y by whatever means you can. Just don 't
give it to he r!"
"D on't listen," D orothea said. "H e doesn't care a bout Swann the way I do."
Harry raised the gun. Even looking straight at death, Valentin did not flinch.
"Y ou've failed, Jud as," she said to Valentin. "T he ma gician's mine."
"W hat magician? " said Harry.
"Why Swann, of course!" she replied lightly. "How many magicians have you got up here?"
Harry dropped his bead on Valentin.
"H e's an illusionist," he said, "you told me that at the very beginning. Ne ver call him a magician, you said ."
"Don't be pedantic," she replied, trying to laugh off her faux p as.
He levelled the gun at her. She threw back her head suddenly, her face contracting, and unloosed a sound of which,
had Harry not heard it from a human throat, he would not have believed the larynx capable. It rang down the corridor
and the stairs, in search of some waiting ear.
"Butterfield is here," said Valentin flatly. Harry nodded. In the same moment she came towards him, her features
grotesquely conto rted. She was strong and q uick; a b lur of venom that took him o ff-guard. He heard Valentin tell
him to kill her, before she transformed. It took him a moment to grasp the significance of this, by which time she had
her teeth at his throat. One of her hand s was a cold vice aro und his wrist; he sen sed strength in her sufficient to
powder his bones. His fingers were already numbed by her grip; he had no time to do more than depress the trigger.
The gun went off. Her breath on his throat seemed to gush from her. Then she loosed her hold on him, and staggered
back. The sho t had b lown o pen her ab dom en. H e shook to see what he had do ne. T he creature, for all its shriek, still
resembled a woman he might have loved.
"G ood ," said Valentin, as the bloo d hit the o ffice floor in gouts. " No w it must show itself."
Hearing him, she shook her head. "This is all there is to show," she said.
Harry threw the gun down. "My Go d," he said softly, "it's her .
Dorothea grimaced. The blood continued to come.
"Some part of her," she replied.
"Have you always been with them then?" Valentin asked.
"O f course not."
"Why then?"
"N owhere to go . . ." she said, her voice fading by the syllable. "No thing to b elieve in. All lies. Everything: lies."
"So you sided with Butterfield?"
"B etter H ell," she said, "than a false Heaven."
"Who taught you that?" Harry murmured.

"Who do you think?" she replied, turning her gaze on him. Though her strength was going out of her with the blood,
her eyes still blazed . "You're finished, D'Amour," she said. " Yo u, and the demon , and S wann. There's nob ody left to
help yo u now ."
Despite the contempt in her words he couldn't stand and watch her bleed to death. Ignoring Valentin's imperative
that he keep clear, he went across to her. As he stepped within range she lashed out at him with astonishing force.
The blow b linded him a moment; he fell against the tall filing cabinet, which toppled sideways. He and it hit the
ground together. It spilled papers; he, curses. He was vaguely aware that the woman was moving past him to escape,
but he was too busy keeping his head from spinning to prevent her. When equilibrium returned she had gone,
leaving her bloody handprints on wall and door.

Chaplin, the janitor, was protective of his territory. The basem ent of the building was a private domain in which he
sorted through office trash, and fed his beloved furnace, and read aloud his favourite passages from the Good Bo ok;
all without fear of interruption. His bowels - which were far from healthy - allowed him little slumber. A couple of
hours a night, no more, which he supplemented with dozing through the day. It was not so bad. He had the seclusion
of the basement to retire to whenever life upstairs became too demanding; and the forced heat would sometimes
bring strange wak ing dreams.
W as this such a dream; this insipid fellow in his fine suit? If not, how had he gained access to the basement, when
the door was locked and bolted? He asked no questions of the intruder. Something about the way the man stared at
him baffled his to ngue. "Chaplin," the fellow said, his thin lips barely mo ving, "I'd like you to open the furnace."
In other circumstances he might well have picked up his shovel and clouted the stranger across the head. The furnace
was his baby. He knew, as no-one else knew, its quirks and occasional petulance; he loved, as no-one else loved, the
roar it gave when it was content; he did not take kind ly to the proprietorial tone the man used. B ut he'd lost the will
to resist. H e picked up a rag and opened the peeling door, offering its hot heart to this man as Lot had o ffered his
daughters to the stranger in Sodom.
Butterfield smiled at the smell of heat from the furnace. From three floors above he heard the woman crying out for
help; and then, a few m ome nts later, a shot. She had failed. H e had thought she wo uld. B ut her life wa s forfeit
anyway. There was no loss in sending her into the breach, in the slim chance that she might have coaxed the body
from its keepers. It would have saved the inconvenience of a full-scale attack, but no matter. To have Swann's soul
was worth any effort. He had defiled the good name of the Prince of Lies. For that he would suffer as no other
miscreant ma gician ever had . Beside S wann's punishment, Faust's would be an inco nvenience, and Nap oleon's a
pleasure- cruise.
As the echoes of the shot died above, he took the black lacquer box from his jacket pocket. The janitor's eyes were
turned heave nward . He to o had heard the shot.
"It was nothing," B utterfield told him. "Stoke the fire." Chaplin o beyed. T he hea t in the crampe d basement rapid ly
grew. T he janitor began to sweat; his visitor did not. H e stood me re feet from the o pen furnace door and gaz ed into
the brightness with impassive features. At last, he seemed satisfied.
"Enough," he said, and opened the lacquer box. Chaplin thought he glimpsed movem ent in the box, as though it were
full to the lid with maggots, but before he had a chance to look more closely both the box and contents were pitched
into the flames.
"Close the door," Butterfield said. Chaplin obeyed. "You may watch over them awhile, if it pleases you. They need
the heat. It makes them m ighty."
He left the janitor to keep his vigil beside the furnace, and went back up to the hallway. He had left the street door
open, and a pusher had com e in out of the cold to do business with a client. They bartered in the shadows, until the
pusher caught sight of the lawyer.
"Do n't mind me," Butterfield said, and started up the stairs. He found the widow Swann on the first landing.
She was not quite dead, but he quickly finished the job D'Amour had started.
"We're in trouble," said Valentin. "I hear noises down- stairs. Is there any other way out of here?"
Harry sat on the floor, leaning against the toppled cabinet, and tried not to think of Dorothea's face as the bullet
found her, or of the creature he was now reduced to needing.
"T here's a fire escape," he said, "it runs do wn to the back of the building."
"Show m e," said Valentin, attem pting to haul him to his feet.
"K eep your ha nds o ff me!"
Valentin withd rew, bruised by the rebuffal. "I'm sorry," he said. "M aybe I shouldn't hop e for your acceptan ce. B ut I
do."

Harry said nothing, just got to his feet amongst the litter of reports and photographs. He'd had a dirty life: spying on
adulteries for vengeful spouses; dredging gutters for lost children; keeping company with scum because it rose to the
top, and the rest just drowned. Could Valentin's soul be much grimier?
"The fire escape's down the hall," he said.
"W e can still get Swann out," Valentin said. "Still give him a dece nt crem ation -" The dem on's ob session with his
master's dignity was chastening, in its way. "But you ha ve to help me, Harry."
I'll help you," he said, avo iding sigh t of the cre ature. "Just do n't expect love and affection."
If it were possible to hear a smile, that's what he heard.
They want this over and done with before dawn," the demon said.
"It can't be far from that no w."
"An hour, mayb e," V alentin replied. "But it's enough. Either way, it's enough."
The sound of the furnace soothed Chaplin; its rumbles and rattlings were as familiar as the complaint of his own
intestines. But there was another sound growing behind the door, the like of which he'd never heard before. His mind
made foolish pictures to go with it. Of pigs laughing; of glass and barbed wire being ground between the teeth; of
hoo fed feet dancing on the do or. As the noises grew so did his trepid ation, but when he went to the b asement do or to
summ on help it was locked ; the key ha d gone. An d now, as if matters weren't bad enough, the light went out.
He began to fumble for a prayer - "Holy Mary, M other of God, pray for us sinners now and at the hour -" But he
stopp ed when a voice a ddressed him, qu ite
clearly.
"Michelmas," it said.
It was unmistakably his mother. And there could be no doubt of its source, either. It came from the furnace.
"Michelmas," she demanded, "are you going to let me cook in here?"
It wasn't possible, of course, that she was there in the flesh: she'd been dead thirteen long years. But some phantom,
perhaps? H e believed in phantoms. Indeed he'd seen them on occasion, coming and going from the cinemas on 42nd
Street, arm in arm.
"Open up, Michelmas," his mother told him, in that special voice she used when she had some treat for him. Like a
good child, he approached the do or. He had never felt such heat off the furnace as he felt now; he could smell the
hairs on his arms wither.
"O pen the do or," Mother said again. T here w as no denying her. D espite the searing air, he reached to com ply.
"That fucking janitor," said Harry, giving the sealed fire escape door a vengeful kick. "This door's supposed to be
left unlocked at all times." He pulled at the chains that were wrapped around the handles. "We'll have to take the
stairs."
There was a noise from back dow n the corridor; a roar in the heating system which made the antiquated radiators
rattle. At that moment, down in the basement, Michelmas Chaplin was obeying his mother, and opening the furnace
door. A scream climbed from be low as his face was blasted off. Then, the sound of the basement door being
smashed open. Ha rry looked at Valentin, his repugnance moment- arily forgotten.
"W e shan't be taking the stairs," the demon said. Bellowings and chatterings and screechings were already on the
rise. Whatever had found birth in the basement, it was preco cious.
"W e have to find so mething to break d own the do or, V alentin said, "anything."
Harry tried to think his way through the adjacent offices, his mind's eye peeled for some tool that would make an
impression on eithe r the fire door or the substantial chains which kept it closed. B ut there w as nothing useful: only
typewriters and filing cabinets.
"Think, man," said Valentin.
He ransacked his memory. Some heavy-duty instru- ment was required. A crowbar; a hammer. An axe! There was
an agent called Shapiro on the floor below, who exclusively represented porno performers, one of whom had
attempted to blow his balls off the month before. She'd failed, but he'd boasted one day on the stairs that he had now
purchased the biggest axe he could find, and would happily take the head off any client who attempted an attack
upon his person.
The com motion from below was simmering down.
The hush was, in its way, more distressing than the din that had preceded it.
"We haven't got much time," the demon said.
Harry left him at the chained door. "Can you get Swann?" he said as he ran.
I'll do my b est."
By the time Harry reached the top of the stairs the last chatterings were dying away; as he began down the flight they

ceased altogether. There was no way now to judge how close the enemy were. On the next floor? Round the next
corner? He tried not to think of them, but his feverish imagination populated every dirty shadow.
He reached the botto m of the flight without inciden t, however, and slunk along the darkened second-floor corridor to
Shapiro's office. Halfway to his destination, he heard a low hiss behind him. He looked over his shoulder, his body
itching to run. One o f the radiators, heated b eyond its limits, had sprung a leak. Steam was escaping from its pipes,
and hissing as it went. He let his heart climb d ow n out of his mouth, and then hurried o n to the do or of Shap iro's
office, praying that the man hadn't simply been shooting the breeze with his talk of axes. If so, they were done for.
The office was locked, of course, but he elbowed the frosted glass out, and reached through to let himself in,
fumbling for the light switch. The walls were plastered with photographs of sex-goddesses. They scarcely claimed
Harry's attention; his panic fed upon itself with every heartbeat he spent here. Clumsily he scoured the office, turning
furniture over in his impatience. But there was no sign of Shapiro's axe.
No w, ano ther no ise from below. It crep t up the staircase a nd alo ng the corridor in search o f him - an unearthly
caco pho ny like the o ne he'd heard on 83rd Street. It set his teeth on edge; the nerve of his rotting m olar b egan to
throb afresh. What did the music signal? Their advance?
In desperation he crossed to Shapiro's desk to see if the man had any other item that might be pressed into service,
and there tucked out of sight between desk and wall, he found the axe. He pulled it from hiding. As Shapiro had
boasted, it was hefty, its weight the first reassurance Harry had felt in too long. He returned to the corridor. The
steam from the fractured pipe had thickened. Through its veils it was apparent that the concert had taken on new
fervour. The doleful wailing rose and fell, punctuated by some flaccid percussion. He braved the cloud of steam and
hurried to the stairs. As he put his foot on the bottom step the music seemed to catch him by the back of the neck,
and whisper: "Listen" in his ear. He had no desire to listen; the music was vile. But somehow - while he was
distracted by finding the axe - it had wormed its way into his skull. It drained his limbs of strength. In moments the
axe began to seem an impossible burden.
"Come on down," the m usic co axed him, "c ome on down and join the band ."
Though he tried to form the simple word "No", the music was gaining influence upon him with every note played.
He bega n to hear melodies in the caterwauling; long circuitous them es that made his bloo d sluggish and his thoug hts
idiot. He knew there was no pleasure to be had at the music's source - that it tempted him only to pain and desolation
- yet he could not shake its delirium off. His feet began to move to the call of the pipers. He forgot Valentin, Swann
and all amb ition for escape, and instead bega n to de scend the stairs. T he me lody b ecam e mo re intricate. He could
hear voices now, singing some charmless accompaniment in a language he didn't comprehend. From somewhere
above, he heard his name called, but he ignored the summons. The m usic clutched him close, and now - as he
descended the next flight of stairs - the musicians came into view.
They were brighter than he had anticipated, and more various. More b aroque in their configurations (the manes, the
multiple heads); more particular in their decoration (the suit of flayed faces; the rouged anus); and, his drugged eyes
now stung to see, more atrocious in their choice of instruments. Such instruments! Byron was there, his bones
sucked clean and drilled with stops, his bladder and lungs teased through slashes in his body as reservoirs for the
piper's breath. He was draped, inverted, across the musician's lap, and even now was played upon - the sacs
ballooning, the tongueless head giving out a wheezing note. Dorothea was slumped beside him, no less transformed,
the strings of her gut made taut between her splinted legs like an obscene lyre; her breasts drummed up on. There
were other instruments too, men who had come off the street and fallen prey to the band. Even Chaplin was there,
much of his flesh burned aw ay, his rib-cage p layed upon indifferen tly well.
"I didn't take you for a music lover," Butterfield said, drawing upon a cigarette, and smiling in welcome. "Put down
your axe and join us."
The word axe reminded Harry of the w eight in his hands, though he co uldn't find his w ay throu gh the b ars of m usic
to remember what it signified.
"D on't be afraid," Butterfield said, "yo u're an inno cent in this. W e hold no gru dge against yo u."
"Dorothea . . ." he said.
"She was an innocent too," said the law yer, "un til we showed her some sigh ts."
Harry looked at the woman's body; at the terrible changes that they had wrought upon her. Seeing them, a tremor
began in him , and so mething cam e betw een him and the music; the imm inence of tears b lotted it out.
"Put down the axe," Butterfield told him.
But the sound of the concert could not compete with the grief that was mounting in him. Butterfield seemed to see
the change in his eyes; the disgust and anger growing there. He dropped his half-smoked cigarette and signalled for
the music-making to stop.
"Must it be death, then?" Butterfield said, but the enquiry was scarcely voiced before Harry started down the last few
stairs towards him. He raised the axe and swung it at the lawyer but the blow was misplaced. The blade ploughed the

plaster of the wa ll, missing its target by a foot.
At this eruption of violence the musicians threw dow n their instruments and b egan across the lob by, trailing their
coats and tails in bloo d and grease . Harry caught their ad vance from the corner of his eye. B ehind the horde, still
rooted in the shadows, was another form, larger than the largest of the mustered demons, from which there now
came a thum p that m ight have bee n that of a vast jack-hammer. H e tried to make sense o f sound or sight, b ut could
do neither. There was no time for curiosity; the demons were almost upon him.
Butterfield glanced round to encourage their advance, and Harry - catching the moment - swung the axe a second
time. The blow caught Butterfield's shoulder; the arm was instantly severed. The lawyer shrieked; blood sprayed the
wall. T here w as no time for a third b low, ho wever. The dem ons were reaching for him, smiles letha l.
He turned on the stairs, and bega n up the m, taking the steps two, three and four at a time. B utterfield w as still
shrieking below; from the flight above he heard Valentin calling his name. He had neither time nor breath to answer.
They were on his heels, their ascent a din of grunts and shouts and beating wings. And behind it all, the jackhammer thumped its way to the bottom of the flight, its noise more intimidating by far than the chatterings of the
berserkers at his back. It was in his belly, that thump; in his bowels. Like death's heartbeat, steady and irrevocable.
On the second landing he heard a whirring sound behind him, and half turned to see a human-headed moth the size
of a vulture climbing the air towards him. He met it with the axe blade, and hacked it down. There was a cry of
excitement from below as the body flapped do wn the stairs, its wings working like paddles. Harry sped up the
remaining flight to where Valentin was standing, listening. It wasn't the chatter he was attending to, nor the cries of
the lawyer;
it was the jack-hammer.
"They brought the Raparee," he said.
"I wo unde d B utterfield -"
"I heard. B ut that won't stop them ."
"W e can still try the doo r."
"I think we're too late, my friend."
W o!" said Harry, pushing past Valentin. The demon had given up trying to drag Swann's body to the door, and had
laid the magician out in the middle of the corridor, his hands crossed on his chest. In some last mysterious act of
reverence he had set folded paper bowls at Swann's head and feet, and laid a tiny origami flower at his lips. Harry
lingered only long enough to re-acquaint himself with the sweetness of Swann's expression, and then ran to the door
and proceeded to hack at the chains. It would be a long job. The assault did more damage to the axe than to the steel
links. He didn't dare give up, however. T his was the ir only esc ape route now, other than flinging them selves to their
deaths from one of the windows. That he would do, he decided, if the worst came to the worst. Jump and die, rather
than be their plaything.
His arms soon became numb with the repeated blows. It was a lost cause; the chain was unimpaired. His despair was
further fuelled by a cry from Valentin - a high, weeping call that he could not leave unanswered. He left the fire door
and returned past the bod y of Swann to the he ad of the stairs.
The demons had Valentin. They swarmed on him like wasps on a sugar stick, tearing him apart. For the briefest of
moments he struggled free of their rage, and Harry saw the mask of humanity in rags and the truth glistening
bloodily beneath. He was as vile as those besetting him, but Harry went to his aid anyway, as much to wound the
dem ons as to save their pre y.
The wielded axe did damage this way and that, sending Valentin's tormentors reeling back down the stairs, limbs
lopped, faces opened. The y did not all bleed. One sliced belly spilled eggs in thousands, one wounded head gave
birth to tiny eels, which fled to the ceiling and hung there by their lips. In the mele he lost sight of Valentin. Forgot
about him, indeed, until he heard the jack-hammer again, and remembered the broken look on Valentin's face when
he'd named the thing. He'd called it the Raparee, or something like.
And now, as his memory shaped the word, it came into sight. It shared no trait with its fellows; it had neither wings
nor m ane no r vanity. It seemed scarcely even to be flesh, but forged, an engine that ne eded only malice to keep its
wheels turning.
At its appearance, the rest retreated, leaving Harry at the top of the stairs in a litter of spawn. Its progress was slow,
its half dozen limbs moving in oiled and elaborate configurations to pierce the walls of the staircase and so haul
itself up. It brought to mind a man on crutches, throwing the sticks ahead of him and levering his weight after, but
there was nothing invalid in the thunder of its body; no pain in the white eye that burned in his sickle-head.
Harry thought he had known despair, but he had not. Only now did he taste its ash in his throat. There was only the
window left for him. That, and the welcoming ground. He backed away from the top of the stairs, forsaking the axe.
Valentin was in the co rridor. He was no t dead , as Ha rry had presumed , but kne eling beside the corpse o f Swann, his
own body drooling from a hundred wounds. Now he bent close to the magician. Offering his apologies to his dead

master, no doubt. But no. There was more to it than that. He had the cigarette lighter in his hand, and was lighting a
taper. Then, murmuring some prayer to himself as he went, he lowered the taper to the mouth of the magician. The
origami flower ca ught and flared up. Its flame was oddly bright, and spread with supernatural efficiency across
Swann's face and down his body. Valentin hauled himself to his feet, the firelight burnishing his scales. He found
enough strength to incline his head to the body as its cremation b egan, and the n his wounds overcame him. H e fell
backwards, and lay still. Harry watched as the flames mounted. Clearly the body had been sprinkled with gasoline or
something similar, for the fire raged up in moments, gold and green.
Suddenly, something too k hold of his leg. H e looked dow n to see that a de mon , with flesh like rip e raspberries, still
had an appetite for him. Its tongue was coiled around Harry's shin; its claws reached for his groin. The assault made
him forget the crem ation or the Ra paree. H e bent to tear at the tongu e with his bare hand s, but its slickness
confounded his attempts. He staggered back as the demon climbed his body, its limbs embracing him.
The struggle took them to the ground, and they rolled away from the stairs, along the other arm of the corridor. The
struggle was far fro m une ven; H arry's repu gnance was at least the match of the demo n's ardour. His torso presse d to
the gro und, he suddenly remembe red the Rap aree. Its a dvance reverberated in every b oard and w all.
No w it came into sight at the top of the stairs, and turned its slow head toward s Swann's funeral pyre. E ven from this
distance Harry could see that Valentin's last- ditch attempts to destroy his master's body had failed. The fire had
scarcely begun to d evour the m agician. They would have him still.
Eyes on the Rap aree, H arry neglected his more intimate enem y, and it thrust a piece of flesh into his mouth. H is
throat filled up with pungent fluid; he felt himself choking. Opening his mouth he bit down hard upo n the organ,
severing it. The demo n did not cry out, but released sprays of scalding excrement from pores along its back, and
disengaged itself. Harry spat its muscle out as the demon crawled away. Then he looked back towards the fire.
All other concerns were forgotten in the face of what he saw.
Swann had stood up.
He was burning from head to foot. His hair, his clothes, his skin. There was no part of him that was not alight. But
he was standing, nevertheless, and raising his hands to his audience in welcome.
The Ra paree had ceased its advance. It stood a yard or two from Swann, its limbs absolutely still, as if it were
mesmerised by this astonishing trick.
Harry saw another figure em erge fro m the head of the stairs. It was B utterfield. H is stump was roughly tied off; a
dem on sup ported his lop-sided bo dy.
Put o ut the fire," dem anded the lawyer o f the Raparee. "It's not so difficult."
The creature did not move.
"G o on," said Butterfield. "It's just a trick of his. He's dead, damn you. It's just co njuring."
"N o," said Harry.
Butterfield looked his wa y. The lawyer had always b een insip id. Now he was so pale his existence was surely in
question.
"What do you know?" he said.
"It's not co njuring," said Harry. "It's mag ic."
Swann see med to hear the word . His eyelids fluttered open, and he slowly reached into his jacket and with a flourish
produced a handkerchief. It too was on fire. It too was unconsumed. As he shook it out tiny bright birds leapt from
its folds on humming wings. The Raparee was entranced by this sleight-of-hand. Its gaze followed the illusory birds
as they rose and were dispersed, and in that moment the magician stepped forward and embraced the engine.
It caught Swann's fire immediately, the flames spreading over its flailing limbs. Though it fought to work itself free
of the magician's hold, Swann was not to be denied. He clasped it closer than a long-lost brother, and would not
leave it be until the creature began to wither in the heat. Once the decay began it seemed the Raparee was devoured
in seco nds, but it was difficult to be certain. T he mo ment - as in the be st performances - was held suspended . Did it
last a minute? T wo minutes? Five? H arry would never know. Nor d id he care to analyse. Disbelief was for co wards;
and do ubt a fashion that crippled the spine. H e was content to watch - not knowing if Swann lived or d ied, if birds,
fire, corridor or if he him self- Harry D'Amou r - were re al or illuso ry.
Finally, the Raparee was gone. Harry got to his feet. Swann was also standing, but his farewell performance was
clearly over.
The defeat of the Raparee had bested the courage of the horde. They had fled, leaving Butterfield alone at the top of
the stairs.
"T his won 't be forgo tten, or forgiven," he said to H arry. "T here's no rest for you. Ever. I am your enemy."
"I ho pe so ," said Harry.
He looked back toward s Swann, leaving Butterfield to his retreat. The magician had laid himself down again. His
eyes we re closed, his hands replaced on his chest. It was as if he had never moved. B ut now the fire was showing its

true teeth. Swann's flesh began to bubble, his clothes to peel off in smuts and smoke. It took a long while to do the
job, but eventually the fire reduced the man to ash.
By tha t time it was after daw n, but today was Sun day, and H arry kne w there would be no visitors to interrup t his
labours. He would have time to gather up the remains; to pound the boneshards and put them with the ashes in a
carrier bag. Then he would go out and find himself a bridge or a dock, and put Swann into the river.
There was precious little of the magician left once the fire had done its work; and nothing that vaguely resembled a
man.
Things ca me and went away; that was a kind o f magic. And in between? Pursuits and co njurings; horrors, guises.
The occ asional joy.
That there was room for joy; ah! that was magic too.

THE LIFE OF DEATH
TH E NE W SPAP ER W AS the first edition of the day, and Elaine devoured it from cover to cover as she sat in the
hospital waiting room . An animal thought to be a panther - which had terrorised the neighb ourhoo d of Ep ping Forest
for two months - had been shot and found to be a wild dog. Archaeologists in the Sudan had discovered bone
fragments which they opined might lead to a complete reappraisal of Man's origins. A young woman who had once
danced with minor royalty had been found murde red near Clapham; a solo round-the- world yachtsman was missing;
recen tly excited hopes of a cure for the common co ld had been dashed. She read the global bulletins and the trivia
with equal fervour - anything to keep her mind off the examination ahead - but today's news seemed very like
yesterday's; only the names had been changed.
Do ctor Sennett informe d her that she was healing well, both insid e and out, and was quite fit to return to her full
responsibilities whenever she felt psychologically resilient enough. She should make another appointment for the
first week of the new year, he told her, and come back for a final examination then. She left him washing his hands
of her.
The thought of getting straight onto the bus and heading back to her rooms was repugnant after so much time sitting
and waiting. She would walk a stop or two along the route, she decided. The exercise would be goo d for her, and the
December d ay, though far from warm, was bright.
Her plans proved over-ambitious however. After only a few minutes of walking her lower abdomen began to ache,
and she started to feel nauseous, so she turned off the main road to seek out a place where she could rest and drink
some tea. She should eat too, she knew, though she had never had much appetite, and had less still since the
operation. Her wanderings were rewarded. She found a small restaurant which, though it was twelve fifty-five, was
not enjoying a roaring lunch-time trade. A small woman with unashamedly artificial red hair served her tea and a
mushroom omelette. She did her best to eat, but didn't get very far. The waitress was plainly concerned.
"So mething wrong with the food ?" she said , some what testily.
"O h no," Elaine reassured her. "It's just me."
The waitress looked offended nevertheless.
Td like some more tea though, if I may?" Elaine said.
She pushed the plate away from her, hoping the waitress would claim it soon. The sight of the meal congealing on
the patternless plate was doing nothing for her mood. She hated this unwelcome sensitivity in herself: it was absurd
that a plate of uneaten eggs should bring these doldrums on, but she couldn't help herself. She found everywhere
little echoes of her own loss. In the death, by a benign November and then the sudden frosts, of the bulbs in her
windo w-sill box; in the thou ght of the wild do g she'd read of that morning, sho t in Epping F orest.
The waitress returned with fresh tea, but failed to take the plate. Elaine called her back, requesting that she do so.
Grudgingly, she obliged.
There were no customers left in the place now, other than Elaine, and the waitress busied herself with removing the
lunchtime menus from the tables and replacing them with those for the evening. Elaine sat staring out of the window.
Veils of blue-grey smoke had crept d own the street in recent minutes, solidifying the sunlight.
"T hey're burning ag ain," the waitress said. "D amn smell gets everywhere."
"What are they burning?"
"Used to be the comm unity centre. They're knocking it down, and building a new o ne. It's a waste of tax- payers"
mon ey."
The smoke was indeed creeping into the restaurant. Elaine did not find it offensive; it was sweetly redolent of
autumn, her favourite season. Intrigued, she finished her tea, paid for her meal, and then elected to wander along and

find the source of the smoke. She didn't have far to walk. At the end of the street was a small square; the demolition
site dominated it. There w as one surprise however. The build ing that the waitress had described as a com munity
centre was in fact a churc h; or had been. The lead and slates had alread y been strippe d off the roof, leaving the joists
bare to the sky; the windows had been denuded of glass; the turf had gone from the lawn at the side of the building,
and two tree s had been felled there. It was their pyre which p rovid ed the tantalising scent.
She d oub ted if the b uilding had ev er been be autiful, but there wa s enough of its structure re maining for her to
supp ose it might have had charm . Its weathe red sto ne was now com pletely at varianc e with the brick a nd co ncrete
that surrounded it, but its besieged situation (the workmen labouring to undo it; the bulldozer on hand, hungry for
rubble) gave it a certain glamour. One or two of the workmen noticed her standing watching them, but none made
any move to stop her as she walked across the square to the front porch of the church and peered inside. The interior,
stripped of its decorative stonework, of pulpit, pews, font and the rest, was simply a stone room, com pletely lacking
in atmosphere or authority. Somebod y, however, had found a source of interest here. At the far end of the church a
man stood with his back to Elaine, staring intently at the ground. Hearing footsteps behind him he looked round
guiltily.
"O h," he said. "I won't be a mo ment."
"It's all right -" E laine said . "I think w e're pro bab ly both tre spassing."
The man no dded. He was dressed soberly - even drearily - but for his green bow-tie. His features, despite the garb
and the grey hairs of a man in middle-age, were curiously unlined, as though neither smile nor frown much ruffled
their perfect indifference.
"Sad, isn't it?" he said. "Seeing a place like this."
"Did you know the church as it used to be?"
"I came in o n occ asion," he said, "b ut it was never very popular."
"What's it called?"
"All Saints. It was built in the late seventeenth century, I believe. Are you fond of churches?"
"N ot particularly. It wa s just that I saw the sm oke, and . . ."
"Everybody likes a demolition scene," he said.
"Y es," she replied, "I supp ose tha t's true."
"It's like watching a funeral. Better them than us, eh?"
She murmured something in agreement, her mind flitting elsewhere. Back to the hospital. To her pain and her
present healing. T o her life saved only by losing the capacity for further life. Better them than us.
"My name's Kavanagh," he said, covering the short distance between them, his hand extended.
"H ow do you do? " she said. I'm E laine Rider."
"Elaine," he said. "Charming."
"Are you just taking a final look at the place before it comes down?"
"That's right. I've been looking at the inscriptions on the floor stones. Some of them are most eloquent." He brushed
a fragment of timber off one of the tablets with his foot. "It seems such a loss. I'm sure they'll just smash the stones
to smithereen s when they start to p ull the floor up -"
She looked do wn at the patchwork of tablets beneath her feet. Not all were marked, and of those that were many
simply carried names and dates. There were some inscriptions however. One, to the left of where Kavanagh was
standing, carried an all but eroded relief of crossed shin-bones, like drum-sticks, and the abrupt motto: Redeem the
time.
"I think there must have been a crypt under here at some time," Kavanagh said.
"O h. I see. And these are the people who w ere buried there."
"W ell, I can't think of any other reason for the inscriptions, can you? I was thinking of asking the work men . . ." he
paused in m id-sentence, ". . . you'll prob ably think this positively morbid of me ..."
"What?"
"W ell, just to preserve one or two of the finer stones from b eing destroyed."
"I don't think that's morbid," she said. T hey're very beau tiful."
He wa s evidently encoura ged by her response. "M aybe I should speak with them now," he said. "W ould you excuse
me for a moment?"
He left her standing in the nave like a forsaken bride, while he went out to quiz one of the workmen. She wandered
down to where the altar had been, reading the names as she went. Who knew or cared ab out these people's resting
places now? De ad two hundred years and more, and gone away not into loving posterity but into oblivion. And
suddenly the unarticulated hopes for an after-life she had nursed through her thirty-four years slipped away; she was
no longer w eighed down by so me vague ambition for heaven. O nt day, perhap s this day, she would die, just as these
peo ple had died, and it wouldn't matter a jo t. The re was nothing to come, no thing to aspire to , nothing to dream o f.

She sto od in a patch of smoke-thickened sun, thinking of this, and was alm ost hap py.
Kavanagh returned from his exchanges with the foreman.
"T here is ind eed a crypt," he said, "b ut it hasn't been emp tied yet."
"O h."
They were still underfoot, she thought. Dust and bones.
"App arently they're having some difficulty getting into it. All the entrances have been sealed up. That's why they're
digging around the foundations. To find another way in."
"Are crypts normally sealed up?"
"N ot as thoroughly as this on e."
"Maybe there was no more room," she said.
Kavanagh took the comment quite seriously. "Maybe," he said.
"Will they give you one of the stones?"
He shook his head. "It's not up to them to say. These are just council lackeys. Apparently they have a firm of
professiona l excav ators to com e in and shift the bo dies to new b urial sites. It all has to be done with due de corum."
"M uch they care," Elaine said, looking down at the stones again.
"I must agree," Kavanagh replied. "It all seems in excess of the facts. But then perhaps we're not God- fearing
enough."
"Probably."
"Anyhow , they told me to com e bac k in a da y or two 's time, and ask the re mov al men."
She laughed at the thought of the d ead moving house; pa cking up their good s and chattels. K avanagh was plea sed to
have mad e a joke, eve n if it had been un intentional. Riding on the crest of this succ ess, he said: "I wonder, may I
take you for a drink?"
"I wo uldn't be very go od comp any, I'm afraid," she said. " I'm really very tired."
"We could perhaps meet later," he said.
She looked away from his eager face. He was pleasant enough, in his uneventful way. She liked his green bow-tie surely a joke at the expense of his own drabness. She liked his seriousness too. But she couldn't face the idea of
drinking with him; at least not tonight. She ma de her apo logies, and explained that she'd been ill recently and hadn 't
recovered her stamina.
"Another night perhaps?" he enquired gently. The lack of aggression in his courtship was persuasive, and she said:
That would be nice. T hank you."
Before they parted they exchanged telephone num- b ers. He seem ed ch armingly excited by the thought of their
meeting again; it made her feel, despite all that had been taken from her, that she still had her sex.
She returned to the flat to find both a parcel from M itch and a hungry cat on the doorstep. She fed the demanding
animal, then made herself some coffee and opened the parcel. In it, cocooned in several layers of tissue paper, she
found a silk scarf, chosen with Mitch's uncanny eye for her taste. The note along with it simply said: It's your colour.
I love you. Mitch.
She wanted to pick up the telephone on the spot and talk to him, but somehow the thought of hearing his voice
seemed dangerous. Too close to the hurt, perhaps. He would ask her how she felt, and she would reply that she was
well, and he would insist: yes, but really? And she would say: I'm empty; they took out half my innards, damn you,
and I'll never have your children or anybody else's, so that's the end of that, isn't it? Even thinking about their talking
she felt tears threaten, and in a fit of inexp licable rage she wrap ped the scarf up in the desicc ated p aper and buried it
at the back of her deepe st drawer. Damn him for trying to make things better now, when at the time she'd mo st
needed him all he'd talked of was fatherhood, and how her tumours would deny it him.
It was a clear evening - the sky's cold skin stretched to breaking point. She did not want to draw the curtains in the
front room, even though passers-by would stare in, because the deepening blue was too fine to miss. So she sat at the
windo w and watche d the dark co me. O nly when the last cha nge ha d been wro ught did she close off the chill.
She had no app etite, but she made herself some food nevertheless, and sat down to watch television as she ate. The
food unfinished, she laid down her tray, and dozed, the programmes filtering through to her intermittently. Some
witless comedian whose merest cough sent his audience into paroxysms; a natural history programme on life in the
Serengeti; the news. She had read all that she needed to know that morning: the headlines hadn't changed.
One item, however, did pique her curiosity: an interview with the solo yachtsman, Michael Maybury, who had been
picked up that day after two weeks adrift in the Pacific. The interview was being beamed from Australia, and the
contact was bad; the image of Maybury's bearded and sun-scorched face was constantly threatened with being
snowed out. The picture mattered little: the acco unt he gave o f his failed vo yage was riveting in sound alone, and in
particular an event that seemed to distress him afresh even as he told it. He had been becalmed, and as his vessel
lacked a motor had been ob liged to wait for wind. It had not come. A week had go ne by with his hardly moving a

kilometre from the same spot of listless ocean; no bird or passing ship broke the monotony. With every hour that
passed, his claustrophobia grew, and on the eighth day it reached panic proportions, so he let himself over the side of
the yacht and swam away from the vessel, a life-line tied about his middle, in order to escape the same few yards of
deck. But once away fro m the yacht, and treading the still, warm water, he ha d no desire to go b ack. W hy not un tie
the kno t, he'd thought to him self, and float awa y.
"What made you change your mind?" the interviewer asked.
Here Maybury frowned. He had clearly reached the crux of his story, but didn't want to finish it. The interviewer
repeated the question.
At last, hesitantly, the sailo r responded. "I looked back at the yacht," he said, "and I saw som ebo dy on the deck."
The interviewer, not certain that he'd heard correctly, said: "Somebody on the deck?"
"T hat's right," M aybury replied. "S ome bod y was there. I saw a figure q uite clearly; moving aro und."
"Did you . . . did you recognise this stowaway?" the question came.
Maybury's face closed down, sensing that his story was being treated with mild sarcasm.
"Who was it?" the interviewer pressed.
"I don't know," M aybury said. "Death, I suppose."
The questioner wa s momentarily lost for words.
"B ut of course you returned to the bo at, eventually."
"O f course."
"And there was no sign of anybody?"
Maybury glanced up at the interviewer, and a look of contempt crossed his face.
"I've survived, haven't I?" he said.
The interviewer mumb led something abo ut not understanding his point.
"I didn't drown," M aybury said. "I could have died then, if I'd wanted to. Slipped off the rope and drowned ."
"B ut you d idn't. And the next day -"
The next d ay the wind picked up."
"It's an extraord inary story," the interviewer said, co n- tent that the stickiest pa rt of the exchange was now safely bypasse d. "Y ou must be lo oking forward to se eing your family again for Christm as . . ."
Elaine didn't hear the final exchange of pleasantries. Her imagination was tied by a fine rope to the room she was
sitting in; her fingers toyed with the knot. If D eath co uld find a boat in the wa stes of the Pacific, how m uch ea sier it
must be to find her. To sit with her, perhaps, as she slept. To watch her as she went about her mourning. She stood
up and turned the television off. The flat was suddenly silent. She questioned the hush impatiently, but it held no
sign of guests, welcome or unwelcome.
As she listened, she could taste salt-water. O cean, no doubt.
She had been offered several refuges in which to convalesce when she came out of hospital. Her father had invited
her up to Aberdeen; her sister Rachel had made several appeals for her to spend a few weeks in Buckinghamshire;
there had even been a pitiful telephone call from M itch, in which he had talked of their holidaying together. She had
rejected them all, telling the m that she wanted to re-estab lish the rhythm of her p revious life as soon as possible: to
return to her job, to her working colleagues and friends. In fact, her reasons had gone deeper than that. She had
feared their sympathies, feared that she would be held too close in their affections and quickly come to rely upon
them. Her streak of independence, which had first brought her to this unfriendly city, was in studied defiance of her
smothering appe tite for security. If she gave in to those loving ap peals she kne w she would take ro ot in do mestic soil
and not loo k up and out again for ano ther year. In which time, what adventures migh t have p assed her by?
Instead she had returned to work as soon as she felt able, hoping that although she had not taken on all her former
responsibilities the familiar routines would help her to re-establish a normal life. But the sleight-of-hand was not
entirely successful. Every few days something would happen - she would overhear some remark, or catch a look that
she was not intended to see - that made her realise she was being treated with a rehearsed caution; that her
colleagues viewed her as b eing fund amentally changed by her illness. It had mad e her angry. She'd wanted to spit
her susp icions in their faces; tell them tha t she and her uterus were not syno nymo us, and that the remov al of one did
not imply the eclipse of the other.
But today, returning to the office, she was not so certain they weren't correct. She felt as tho ugh she hadn't slept in
weeks, though in fact she was sleeping long and dee ply every night. Her eyesight wa s blurred, and there was a
curious remoteness about her experiences that day that she associated with extreme fatigue, as if she were drifting
further and further from the work on her desk; from her sensations, from her very thoughts. Twice that morning she
caught herself speaking and then wondered who it was who was conceiving of these words. It certainly wasn't her;
she was too busy listening.

And then, an hour after lunch, things had suddenly taken a turn for the worse. She had been called into her
supervisor's office and asked to sit down.
"Are you all right, Elaine?" Mr. Chimes had asked.
"Y es," she'd told him. "I'm fine."
There's been some concern -"
"About what?"
Chime s lo ok ed slightly em ba rrassed. "Y ou r beha viour," he finally said. "P lease don't think I'm p rying, Elaine. It's
just that if you need some further time to re cuperate -"
"T here's nothing wro ng with m e."
"B ut your w eeping -"
"What?"
"T he way you've been crying tod ay. It concerns us."
"Cry?" she'd said . "I do n't cry."
The supervisor seem ed baffled. "But you've been crying all day. Yo u're crying now."
Elaine put a tentative hand to her cheek. And yes; yes, she was crying. Her cheek was wet. She'd stood up, shocked
at her o wn co nduc t.
"I didn't ... I didn't know," she said. Though the words sounded preposterous, they were true. She hadn't known.
Only now, with the fact pointed out, did she taste tears in her throat and sinuses; and with that taste came a memory
of when this eccentricity had begun: in front of the television the night before.
"Why don't you take the rest of the day off?"
"Y es."
"T ake the rest of the week if you'd like," Chim es said. "You're a valued mem ber o f staff, Elaine; I don't have to tell
you that. W e don't want you coming to any harm." This last remark struck home with stinging force. Did they think
she was verging on suicide; was that why she was treated with kid gloves? They were only tears she was shedding,
for God's sake, and she was so indifferent to them she had not even known they were falling.
"I'll go ho me," she said . "T hank you for your . . . concern."
The supervisor looked at her with some dismay. "It must have been a very traumatic experience," he said.
"W e all und erstand ; we really do. If you feel you want to talk about it at any time -"
She declined, but thanked him again and left the office.
Face to face with herself in the mirror of the women's toilets she realised just how bad she looked. Her skin was
flushed, her eyes swollen. She did what she could to conceal the signs of this painless grief, then picked up her coat
and started home. As she reached the underground station she knew that returning to the empty flat would not be a
wise idea. She would brood, she would sleep (so much sleep of late, and so perfectly dreamless) but she would not
improve her mental condition by either route. It was the bell of Holy Innocents, tolling in the clear afternoon, that
reminded her of the smoke and the square and M r. Kavanagh.
There, she decided, was a fit place for her to walk. She could enjoy the sunlight, and think. Maybe she would meet
her admirer again.
She found her way back to All Saints easily enough, but there was disappointment awaiting her. The demo- lition
site had been cordoned off, the boundary marked by a row of posts - a red fluorescent ribbon looped between them.
The site was guarded by no less than four policemen, who were ushering pedestrians towards a detour around the
square. The workers and their hammers had been exiled from the shadows of All Saints and now a very different
selection of people - suited and academic - occupied the zone beyond the ribbon, some in furrowed conversation,
others standing on the muddy ground and staring up quizzically at the derelict church. The south transept and much
of the area aro und it had been curtained off from public view b y an arra ngem ent of tarpaulins and black plastic
sheeting. Occasionally somebody would emerge from be hind this veil and consult with others on the site. All who
did so, she noted, were wearing gloves; one or two were also masked. It was as though they were performing some
ad hoc surgery in the shelter of the screen. A tum our, perhaps, in the bowels of All Saints.
She approached one of the officers. "What's going on?"
"T he foundations are unstable," he told her. "Appa r ently the p lace could fall down at any m ome nt."
"Why are they wearing masks?"
"It's just a precau tion against the d ust."
She d idn't argue, though this explanation struck her as unlikely.
"If you want to get through to Temple Street you'll have to go round the back," the officer said.
W hat she really wanted to do was to stand and watch proceedings, but the proximity of the uniformed quartet
intimidated her, and she decided to give up and go home. As she began to make her way back to the main road she
caught sight of a familiar figure crossing the end of an adjacent street. It was unmistakably Kavanagh. She called

after him, though he had alread y disappeared, and wa s pleased to see him step back into view and return a nod to
her.
"W ell, well -" he said as he cam e down to m eet her. "I did n't expect to see yo u again so soo n."
"I came to watch the rest of the demolition," she said.
His face was ruddy with the cold, and his eyes were shining.
I'm so pleased ," he said. "D o you want to have some afternoon tea? T here's a place just around the corner."
I'd like that."
As they walked she asked him if he knew what was go ing on at All Saints.
"It's the crypt," he said, confirming her susp icions.
They opened it?"
"T hey certainly found a wa y in. I was here this mo rning -"
"About your stones?"
That's right. They were alread y putting up the tarpaulins then."
"So me o f them were we aring m asks."
"It wo n't smell very fresh do wn there. No t after so long."
Thinking o f the curtain of tarp aulin drawn b etween her and the mystery within she said: "I wonder wha t it's like."
"A wonderland," Kavanagh replied.
It was an odd response, and she didn't query it, at least not on the spot. But later, when they'd sat and talked together
for an hour, and she felt easier with him, she returned to the com ment.
"W hat you said ab out the crypt. . ."
"Yes?"
"Abou t it being a wond erland ."
"Did I say that?" he replied, somewhat sheepishly. "What must you think of me?"
"I was just puzzled . W ondered what you mea nt."
"I like places where the dead are," he said. "I always have. Cemeteries can be very beautiful, don't you think?
Mauso leums and tombs; all the fine craftsmanship that goes into those places. Even the dead may sometimes reward
closer scrutiny." He looked at her to see if he had strayed beyond her taste threshold, but seeing that she only looked
at him with quiet fascination, continued. They can be very beautiful on occasion. It's a sort of a glamour they have.
It's a sham e it's w asted o n morticians and funeral directors." He m ad e a small misc hievous grin. "I'm sure there's
much to be seen in that crypt. Strange sights. W onderful sights."
"I only ever saw one de ad person . My grand mother, I was very young at the time . . ."
"I trust it was a pivo tal experience."
"I don't think so. In fact I sca rcely rem emb er it at all, I only remembe r how everyb ody cried."
"Ah."
He nodded sagely.
"So selfish," he said. "Don't you think? Spoiling a farewell with snot and sobs." Again, he looked at her to gauge the
response; again he was satisfied that she would not take offence. "We cry for ourselves, don't we? Not for the dead.
The dea d are past ca ring."
She m ade a small, soft: "Yes," an d then, more loud ly: "M y Go d, yes. T hat's right. Always for o urselves . . ."
"You see how much the dead can teach, just by lying there, twiddling their thumb-bones?"
She laughed: he jo ined her in laughter. She had mis jud ged him on that initial meeting, thinking his fac e unused to
smiles; it was not. But his features, when the laughter d ied, swiftly regained that eerie quiescenc e she had first
noticed.
W hen, after a further half hour of his laconic re marks, he told her he had appo intments to keep and had to be on his
way, she thanked him for his co mpa ny, and said: "No bod y's made me laugh so m uch in weeks. I'm grateful."
"Y ou sho uld laugh," he told her. "It suits you." Then ad ded : "You have be autiful teeth."
She thought of this odd remark when he'd gone, as she did of a dozen others he had made through the afternoon. He
was undou btedly one o f the mo st off-beat individuals she'd ever encountered, but he had com e into he r life - with his
eagerness to talk of crypts and the dead and the beauty of her teeth - at just the right moment. He was the perfect
distraction from her buried sorrows, making her present aberrations seem minor stuff beside his own. When she
started home she was in high spirits. If she had not known herself better she might have thought herself half in love
with him. On the journey back, and later that evening, she thought particularly of the joke he had made about the
dead twiddling their thumb -bones, and that thought led inevitab ly to the mysteries that lay out of sight in the crypt.
Her curiosity, once aroused, was not easily silenced; it grew on her steadily that she badly wanted to slip through
that cordon of ribbon and see the burial chamber with her own eyes. It was a desire she would never previously have
admitted to herself. (How many times had she walked from the site of an accident, telling herself to control the

shameful inquisitiveness she felt?) But Kavanagh had legitimised her appetite with his flagrant enthusiasm for things
funereal. Now, with the taboo shed, she wanted to go back to All Saints and look Death in its face, then next time
she saw Kavanagh she would have some stories to tell of her own. The idea, no sooner budde d, came to full flower,
and in the middle of the evening she dressed for the street again and headed back towards the square.
She didn't reach All Saints until well after eleven- thirty, but there were still signs of activity at the site. Lights,
mounted on stands and on the wall of the church itself, poured illumination on the scene. A trio of technicians,
Kavanagh's so-called rem oval men, sto od o utside the tarpaulin shelter, their faces drawn with fatigue, their b reath
clouding the frosty air. She stayed out of sight and watched the scene. She was growing steadily colder, and her
scars had begun to ache, but it was apparent that the night's work on the crypt was more or less over. After some
brief exchange with the police, the technicians departed. They had extinguished
9
all but one of the floodlights, leaving the site - church, tarpaulin and rimy mud - in grim chiaroscuro.
The two o fficers who had b een left on guard were not over-conscientious in their duties. W hat idiot, they app arently
reaso ned, would com e grave-rob bing at this hour, and in such tem peratures? After a few minutes keeping a footstamping vigil they withdrew to the relative comfort of the workmen's hut. When they did not re-emerge, Elaine
crept out of hid ing and moved as cautiously as po ssible to the ribb on that divided one zon e from the othe r. A rad io
had been turned on in the hut; its noise (music for lovers from dusk to dawn, the distant voice purred) covered her
crackling advance across the frozen earth.
Once beyond the cordon, and into the forbidden territory beyond, she was not so hesitant. She swiftly crossed the
hard ground, its wheel-plo ughed furro ws like co ncrete, into the lee of the church. T he floo dlight wa s dazzling; by it
her breath appeared as solid as yesterday's smoke had seemed. Behind her, the music for lovers murmured on. No
one emerged from the hut to summon her from her trespassing. No alarm-bells rang. She reached the edge of the
tarpaulin curtain withou t inciden t, and p eered at the scene co ncealed behind it.
The dem olition men, under very specific instructions to judge by the care they had taken in their labours, had dug
fully eight feet d own the side of All Saints, exp osing the foundations. In so doing they had uncovered an entrance to
the burial-chamber which previous hands had been at pains to conceal. Not only had earth been piled up against the
flank of the church to hide the entrance, but the crypt door had also been remo ved, and stone masons sealed the
entire aperture up. This had clearly been done at some speed; their handiwork was far from ordered. They had
simply filled the entrance up with any sto ne or brick that had com e to hand, and plastered coarse mo rtar over their
endeavours. Into this mortar - though the design had been spoiled by the excavations - some artisan had scrawled a
six-foot cross.
All their efforts in securing the crypt, and marking the mortar to keep the godless out, had gone for nothing however.
The seal had been broken - the mortar hacked at, the stones torn away. There was now a small hole in the middle of
the doorway, large enough for one person to gain access to the interior. Elaine had no hesitation in climbing down
the slope to the breached wall, and then squirming through.
She had predicted the darkness she met on the other side, and had brought with her a cigarette lighter Mitch had
given her three years ago. She flicked it on. The flame was small; she turned up the wick, and by the swelling light
investigated the space ahead of her. It was not the crypt itself she had stepped into but a narrow vestibule of some
kind: a yard or so in front of her was another wall, and another door. This one had not been replaced with bricks,
though into its solid timbers a second cross had been gouged. She approached the door. The lock had been removed by the investigators presumably - and the do or then held shut again with a rope binding. This had b een d one quickly,
by tired fingers. She did not find the rope difficult to untie, though it required both hands, and so had to be effected
in the dark.
As she worked the knot free, she heard voices. The policemen - damn them - had left the seclusion of their hut and
come out into the bitter night to do their rounds. She let the rope be, and pressed herself against the inside wall of the
vestibule. The officers' voices were becoming louder: talking of their children, and the escalating cost of Christmas
joy. Now they were within yards of the crypt entrance, standing, or so she guessed, in the shelter of the tarpaulin.
They made no attempt to descend the slope however, but finished their cursory inspection on the lip of the
earthworks, then turned back. Their voices faded.
Satisfied that they were out of sight and hearing of her, she reignited the flame and returned to the door. It was large
and brutally heavy; her first attempt at hauling it open met with little success. She tried again, and this time it moved,
grating across the grit on the vestibule floor. Once it was open the vital inches required for her to squeeze through
she eased her straining. The lighter guttered as though a breath had blown from within; the flame briefly burned not
yellow but electric blue. She didn't pause to admire it, but slid into the promised wonderland.
Now the flame fed - became livid - and for an instant its sudden brightness took her sight away. She pressed the
corners of her eyes to clear them, and looked again. So this was Death. There was none of the art or the glamour

Kavanagh had talked of; no calm laying out of shrouded beauties on cool marble sheets; no elaborate reliquaries, nor
aphorisms on the nature o f human frailty: not even name s and dates. In most cases, the corp ses lacked even coffins.
The crypt was a charnel-house. Bodies had been thrown in heaps on every side; entire families pressed into niches
that were designed to hold a single casket, dozens more left where hasty and careless hands had tossed them. The
scene - though absolutely still - was rife with panic. It was there in the faces that stared from the piles of dead:
mouths wide in silent protest, sockets in which eyes had withered gaping in shock at such treatment. It was there too
in the way the system of burial had degenerated from the ordered arrangement of caskets at the far end of the crypt
to the haphazard piling of crudely made coffins, their wood unp laned, their lids unmarke d but for a scraw led cross,
and thence - finally - to this hurried heaping of unhoused carcasses, all concern for dignity, perhaps even for the rites
of passage, forgotten in the rising hysteria.
There had b een a disaster, of that she could have no doub t; a sudden influx of bodies - men, women, children (there
was a baby at her feet who could not have lived a day) - who had died in such escalating numbers that there was not
even time to close their eyelids before they were shunted away into this pit. Perhaps the coffin-makers had also died,
and were thrown here amon gst their clients; the shro ud-sew ers too , and the priests. A ll gone in one apocalyptic
mon th (or week), the ir surviving relatives to o sho cked or too frightened to consider the niceties, but only eager to
have the dead thrust out of sight where they would never have to look on their flesh again.
There was much of that flesh still in evidence. The sealing of the crypt, closing it off from the decaying air, had kept
the occupants intact. Now, with the violation of this secret chamber, the heat of decay had been rekindled, and the
tissues were deteriorating afresh. Everywhere she saw rot at work, making sores and suppurations, blisters and
pustules. She raised the flame to see better, though the stench of spoilage was beginning to crowd upon her and
make her d izzy. Everywh ere her eyes trav elled she seem ed to alight upon so me p itiful sight. Tw o child ren laid
together as if sleeping in each other's arms; a woman whose last act, it appeared, had been to paint her sickened face
so as to die more fit for the marriage-bed than the grave.
She could not help but stare, though her fascination cheated them of privacy. There was so much to see and
remember. She could never be the same, could she, having viewed these scenes? One corpse - lying half-hidden
beneath another - drew her particular attention: a wom an whose long che stnut-coloured hair flowed from her scalp
so cop iously Elaine envied it. She moved closer to get a be tter look, and then, putting the last of her squeamishness
to flight, too k hold of the body thrown across the wo man, and hauled it away. T he flesh o f the corpse was grea sy to
the touch, and left her lingers stained, but she was not distressed. The uncovered corp se lay with her legs wide, but
the constant weight of her companion had bent them into an impossible configuration. The wound that had killed her
had bloodied her thighs, and glued her skirt to her abdomen and groin. Had she miscarried, Elaine wondered, or had
some disease devou red her there? She stared and stared, bending close to study the faraway look on the wom an's
rotted face. Such a place to lie, she thought, with your blood still shaming you. She would tell Kavanagh when next
she saw him, how wrong he had been with his sentimental tales of calm beneath the sod.
She had seen enough; more than enough. She wiped her hands upon her co at and made her way back to the door,
closing it behind her and knotting up the rope again as she had found it. Then she climbed the slope into the clean
air. The policemen were nowhere in sight, and she slipped away unseen, like a shadow's shadow.
There was nothing for her to feel, once she had mastered her" initial disgust, and that twinge of pity she'd felt seeing
the children and the woman with the chestnut hair; and even those responses - even the pity and the repugnance were quite manageable. She had felt both more acutely seeing a dog run down by a car than she had standing in the
crypt of All Saints, despite the horrid displays on every side. When she laid her head down to sleep that night, and
realised that she was neither trembling nor nauseous, she felt strong. What was there to fear in all the world if the
spectacle of mortality she had just witnessed could be borne so readily? She slept deeply, and woke refreshed.
She went back to work that morning, apologising to Chimes for her behaviour of the previous day, and reassuring
him that she was now feeling happier than she'd felt in months. In order to prove her rehabilitation she was as
gregarious as she could be, striking up conversations with neglected acquaintances, and giving her smile a ready
airing. This met with some initial resistance; she could sense her colleagues doubting that this bout of sunshine
actually meant a summer. But when the mood was sustained throughout the day and through the day following, they
began to respond more readily. By Thursday it was as though the tears of earlier in the week had never been shed.
Peo ple told her how well she wa s looking. It was true; her m irror confirmed the rumo urs. Her eyes shone , her skin
shone. She was a p icture of vitality.
On T hursday afternoon she was sitting at her desk, working through a backlog of inquiries, when one of the
secretaries ap peared fro m the corridor and began to babble. So meb ody w ent to the wom an's aid; thro ugh the sobs it
was apparent she was talking about Bernice, a woman E laine knew well enough to exchange smiles with on the
stairs, but no better. There had been an accident, it seemed; the woman was talking about blood on the floor. Elaine

got up and joined those who were making their way out to see what the fuss was about. The supervisor was already
standing outside the women's lavatories, vainly instructing the curious to keep clear. Somebody else - another
witness, it seemed - was offering her account of events:
"She was just standing there, and suddenly she started to shake. I thought she was having a fit. Blood started to come
from her no se. Then from her mouth. Pouring out."
"There's nothing to see," Chimes insisted. "Please keep back." B ut he was substantially ignored. Blankets were being
brought to wrap around the woman, and as soon as the toilet door was opened again the sight-seers pressed forward.
Elaine caught sight of a form moving about on the toilet floor as if convulsed by cramps; she had no wish to see any
more. Leaving the others to throng the corridor, talking loudly of Bernice as if she were already dead, Elaine
returne d to he r desk. She had so much to do ; so many wasted, grieving days to catch up o n. An apt phrase flitted into
her head. Redeem the time. She wrote the three words on her notebook as a reminder. Where did they come from?
She couldn't recall. It didn't matter. Sometimes there was wisdom in forgetting.
Kavanagh rang her that evening, and invited her out to dinner the following night. She had to decline, however,
eager as she w as to discuss her recent exploits, bec ause a small party was b eing thro wn by severa l of her frien ds, to
celebrate her return to health. Would he care to join them? she asked. He thanked her for the invitation, but replied
that large numbers of people had always intimidated him. She told him not to be foolish: that her circle would be
pleased to meet him, and she to show him off, but he replied he would only put in an appearance if his ego felt the
equal of it, and that if he didn't show up he hoped she wouldn't offended.
She soothed such fears. Before the conversation came to an end she slyly mentioned that next time they met she had
a tale to tell.
The following day brought unhappy news. Bernice had died in the early hours of Friday morning, without ever
regaining consciousness. The cause of death was as yet unverified, but the office gossips concurred that she had
never been a strong wo man - always the first amongst the secretaries to catch a co ld and the last to shake it off.
There was also some talk, though traded less loudly, about her personal behaviour. She had been generous with her
favours it appeared, and injudicious in her cho ice of partners. W ith venereal diseases rea ching epide mic proportions,
was that not the likeliest explanation for the death?
The news, though it kept the rumourmongers in business, was not good for general morale. Two girls went sick that
morning, and at lunchtime it seemed that Elaine was the only member of staff with an appetite. She compensated for
the lack in her colleagues, however. She had a fierce hunger in her; her body almost seemed to ache for sustenance.
It was a good feeling, after so many months of lassitude. When she looked around at the worn faces at the table she
felt utterly apart from them: from their tittle-tattle and their trivial opinions, from the way their talk circled on the
suddenness of Bernice's death as though they had not given the subject a moment's thought in years, and were
amazed that their neglect had not rendered it extinct. Elaine knew better. She had come close to death so often in the
recent past: during the months leading up to her hysterectomy, when the tumours had suddenly doubled in size as
though sensing that they were plotted against; on the o perating table, when twice the surgeons thought they'd lost
her; and most recently, in the crypt, face to face with those gawping carcasses. Death was everywhere. That they
should be so startled by its entrance into their charmless circle struck her as almost comical. She ate lustily, and let
them talk in whispers.
They gathered for her party at Reuben's house - Elaine, Hermione, Sam and Nellwyn, Josh and Sonja. It was a good
night; a chance to pick up on how mutual friends were faring; how statuses and ambitions were on the change.
Everyone got drunk very quickly; tongues already loosened by familiarity became progressively looser. Nellwyn led
a tearful toast to Elaine; Josh and Sonja had a short but acrimonious exchange on the subject of evangelism; Reuben
did his impersona tions of fellow barristers. It was like old times, excep t that mem ory had yet to im prove it.
Kavanagh did not pu t in an appearance , and E laine was glad o f it. Despite her protestations when speaking to him
she knew he would have felt out of place in such close-knit company. About half past midnight, when the room had
settled into a number of quiet exchanges, Hermione mentioned the yachtsman. Though she was almost across the
room, Elaine heard the sailor's name mentioned quite distinctly. She broke off her conversation with Nellwyn and
picked her way through the sprawling limbs to join Hermione and Sam.
"I heard you talking about Maybury," she said.
"Y es," said Hermio ne, "S am and I were just saying ho w strange it all was -"
"I saw him on the news," Elaine said.
"Sad story, isn't it?" Sam com mented. "The way it happe ned."
"Why sad?"
"H im saying that: abo ut Death being on the bo at with him-"

"- And then dying," Hermione said.
"Dying?" said Elaine. "When was this?"
"It was in all the papers."
"I haven't been concentrating that much," Elaine replied. "What happened?"
"He was killed," Sam said. "They were taking him to the airport to fly him home, and there was an accident. He was
killed just like that." H e snap ped his middle finger and thumb . "Out like a light."
"So sad," said Hermione.
She glanced at Elaine, and a frown crept across her face. The look baffled Elaine until - with that same shock of
recognition she'd felt in Chimes' office, discovering her tears - she realized that she was smiling.
So the sailor was dead.
W hen the party broke up in the early hours of Saturday morning - when the embraces and the kisses were over and
she was home again - she thought over the Maybury interview she'd heard, summoning a face scorched by the sun
and eyes peeled by the wastes he'd almost been lost to, thinking of his mixture of detachment and faint
emb arrassm ent as he 'd told the tale of his sto wawa y. And, of course, those final wo rds of his, when presse d to
identify the stranger: "Death, I suppose," he'd said.
He'd been right.
She woke up late on Saturda y morning, withou t the anticipated hangover. T here was a letter from Mitch. She didn't
open it, but left it on the mantelpiece for an idle moment later in the day. The first snow of winter was in the wind,
though it was too wet to make any serious impression on the streets. The chill was biting enough however, to judge
by the scowls o n the faces of passers-b y. She felt o ddly im mune from it, ho wever. Though she had no heating on in
the flat she walked around in he r bathrobe , and b arefoot, as tho ugh she had a fire stoked in her belly.
After coffee she went through to wash. There was a spider clot of hair in the plug hole; she fished it out and dropped
it down the lavatory, then returned to the sink. Since the removal of the dressings she had studiously avoided any
close scrutiny of her body, but today her qualms and her vanity seemed to have disappeared. She stripped off her
robe, and looked he rself ove r critically. She was p leased with what she saw. Her breasts were full and d ark, her skin
had a pleasing sheen to it, her pubic hair had regrown more lushly than ever. The scars themselves still looked and
felt tender, but her eyes read their lividness as a sign of her cunt's amb ition, as tho ugh any day no w her se x wou ld
grow from anus to navel (and beyond perhaps) opening her up; making her terrible. It was paradoxical, surely, that it
was only now, when the surgeons had emptied her out, that she should feel so ripe, so resplendent. She stood for
fully half an hour in front of the mirror admiring herself, her thoughts drifting off. Eventually she returned to the
chore of wa shing. T hat do ne, she went back into the front room , still naked. She had no desire to conceal herself;
quite the other way about. It was all she could do to prevent herself from stepping out into the snow and giving the
whole street so mething to rem emb er her by.
She crossed to the window, thinking a dozen such foolish thoughts. The snow had thickened. Through the flurries
she caught a movement in the alley between the houses opposite. Somebody was there, watching her, though she
couldn't see who. She didn't mind. She stood peeping at the peeper, wondering if he would have the courage to show
himself, but he d id not.
She watched for several minutes before she realised that her brazenness had frightened him away. Disap pointed, she
wandered back to the bedroom and got dressed. It was time she found herself something to eat; she had that familiar
fierce hunger upon her. The fridge was practically empty. She would have to go out and stock up for the weekend.
Supermarkets were circuses, especially on a Saturday, but her mood was far too buoyant to be depressed by having
to make her way through the crowds. Today she even found some pleasure in these scenes of conspicuous
consumption; in the trolleys and the baskets heaped high with foodstuffs, and the children greedy-eyed as they
app roached the confectionery, and tearful if denied it, and the wives weighing up the merits of a leg of m utton while
their husbands watched the girls on the staff with eyes no less calculating.
She p urchased twice as m uch food fo r the weekend as she would no rmally ha ve do ne in a full week, he r app etite
driven to distraction b y the smells from the delicatessen and fresh mea t counters. By the time she reached the house
she was almost shaking with the anticipation of sustenance. As she put the bags down on the front step and fumbled
for her keys she heard a car door slam behind her.
"Elaine?"
It was Hermione. The red wine she'd consumed the previous night had left her looking blotchy and stale.
"Are you feeling all right?" Elaine asked.
"The point is, are you?" Hermione wanted to know.
"Yes, I'm fine. Why shouldn't I be?"
Herm ione returned a harried loo k. "Sonja's gone dow n with some kind of food p oisoning, and so's Reuben. I just

came round to see that yo u were all right."
"As I say, fine."
"I don't understand it."
"What about Nellwyn and Dick?"
"I co uldn't get an answer at their place. B ut Reu ben's in a bad way. T hey've take n him into hosp ital for tests."
"Do you want to come in and have a cup of coffee?"
"No thanks, I've got to get back to see Sonja. I just didn't like to think of your being on your own if you'd gone down
with it too."
Elaine smiled. "You're an angel," she said, and kissed Hermione on the cheek. The gesture seemed to startle the
other wom an. Fo r some reason she stepped back, the kiss exchanged, staring at Elaine with a vague puzz lement in
her eyes.
"I must ... I must go," she said, fixing her face as though it would betray her.
I'll call you later in the day," Elaine said, "and find out how the y're doing ."
"Fine."
Hermione turned away and crossed the pavement to her car. Though she mad e a cursory attempt to conceal the
gesture, Elaine caught sight of her putting her fingers to the spot on her cheek where she had been kissed and
scratch ing at it, as if to era dicate the contact.
It was not the season for flies, but those that had survived the recent cold buzzed around in the kitchen as Elaine
selected some bread, smoked ham, and garlic sausage from her purchases, and sat down to eat. She was ravenous. In
five minutes or less she had devoured the meats, and made substantial inroads into the loaf, and her hunger was
scarcely tamed . Settling to a dessert of figs and cheese, she thought of the paltry omelette she'd been una ble to finish
that day after the visit to the hospital. One thought led to another; from omelette to smoke to the square to Kavanagh
to her m ost recent visit to the church, and thinking o f the place she was suddenly seized by an enthusiasm to see it
one final time before it was entirely levelled. She was probably too late already. The bodies would have been
parcelled up and removed, the crypt decontaminated and scoured; the walls would be rubble. But she knew she
would not be satisfied until she had seen it for herself.
Even after a meal which would have sickened her with its excess a few days before, she felt light-headed as she set
out for All Saints; almost as though she were d runk. N ot the maudlin drunkenness she had been p rone to when with
Mitch, but a euphoria which made her feel well-nigh invulnerable, as if she had at last located some bright and
incorruptible part of herself, and no harm would ever befall her again.
She had prepared herself for finding All Saints in ruins, but she did not. The building still stood, its walls untouched,
its beam s still dividing the sky. Perhap s it too co uld no t be top pled, she mused; perhap s she and it were twin
immortals. The suspicion was reinforced by the gaggle of fresh worshippers the church had attracted. The police
guard had trebled since the day she'd been here, and the tarpaulin that had shielded the crypt entrance from sight was
now a vast tent, supported b y scaffolding, which entirely encom passed the flank o f the building. The altar-servers,
standing in close pro ximity to the tent, wore masks and gloves; the high p riests - the chosen few who were actually
allowed into the H oly of Ho lies - were entirely garbed in pro tective suits.
She watched from the cordon: the signs and genu flections between the devotees; the sluicing down of the suited
men as they emerged from behind the veil; the fine spray of fumigants which filled the air like bitter incense.
Another onlooker was quizzing one of the officers.
"Why the suits?"
"In case it's contagious," the reply came.
"After all these years?"
"T hey do n't know what they've got in there."
"Diseases don't last, do they?"
"It's a plague-pit," the officer said. "They're just be ing cautious."
Elaine listened to the exchange, and her tongue itched to speak. She could save them their investigations with a few
words. After all, she was living proof that whatever pestilence had destroyed the families in the crypt it was no
longer virulent. She had breathed that air, she had touched that mouldy flesh, and she felt healthier now than she had
in years. But they would not thank her for her revelations, would they? They were too engrossed in their rituals;
perhaps even ex cited b y the discovery of such horro rs, their turm oil fuelled and fired by the possibility that this
death was still living. She would not be so unsporting as to sour their enthusiasm with a confession of her own rare
good health.
Instead she turned her back on the priests and their rites, on the drizzle of incense in the air, and began to walk away
from the square. As she looked up from her thoughts she glimpsed a familiar figure watching her from the corner of

the adjacent street. He turned away as she glanced up, but it was undoubtedly Kavanagh. She called to him, and
went to the corner, but he was walking smartly away from her, head bowed . Again she called after him, and now he
turned - a patently false look of surprise pasted onto his face - and retrod his escape-route to greet her.
"Have you heard what they've found?" she asked him.
"Oh yes," he replied. Despite the familiarity they'd last enjoyed she was reminded now of her first impression of
him: that he was not a man much conversant with feeling.
"Now you'll never get your stones," she said.
"I supp ose not," he replied, not overtly concerned at the loss.
She w anted to tell him that she'd seen the p lague-p it with her own eyes, hoping the ne ws would bring a gleam to his
face, but the corner of this sunlit street was an inappropriate spot for such talk. Besides, it was almost as if he knew.
He looked at her so oddly, the warmth of their previous meeting entirely gone.
"W hy did you come back?" he asked her.
"Just to see," she replied.
"I'm flattered."
"Flattered?"
That my enthusiasm for mausoleums is infectious."
Still he watched her, and she, returning his look , was co nscious of ho w cold his eyes were, and how p erfectly shiny.
They might have b een glass, she tho ught; and his skin suede-glued like a hood o ver the subtle architecture of his
skull.
"I should go," she said.
"Business or pleasure?"
"N either," she told him. "O ne or two of my friend s are ill."
"Ah."
She had the impression that he wanted to be away; that it was only fear of foolishness that kept him from running
from her.
"Perhap s I'll see you ag ain," she said. " Som etime."
"I'm sure," he rep lied, gratefully taking his cue and retreating along the street. "A nd to your friends - my best
regards."
Even if she wanted to pass Kavanagh's good wishes along to Reuben and Sonja, she could not have done so.
Hermione did not answer the telephone, nor did any o f the others. Th e close st she came was to leave a m essage with
Reuben's answering service.
The light-headedness she'd felt earlier in the day developed into a strange dreaminess as the afternoon inched
towards evening. S he ate again, but the feast did no thing to keep the fugue -state from deep ening. S he felt quite well;
that sense of inviolability that had came upon her was still intact. But time and again as the day wore on she found
herself standing on the thresho ld of a ro om not kno wing wh y she had come there; or watching the light dw indle in
the street outside without being quite certain if she was the viewer or the thing viewed. She was happy with her
com pany though, as the flies were happy. T hey kep t buzzing attend ance even though the dark fell. Ab out seven in
the evening she heard a car draw up outside, and the bell rang. She went to the door of her flat, but couldn't muster
the inquisitiveness to open it, step out into the hallway and adm it callers. It would be Hermione again, most
probably, and she didn't have any appetite for gloomy talk. Didn't want anybody's company in fact, but that of the
flies.
The callers insisted on the bell; the more they insisted the more determined she became not to reply. She slid down
the wall beside the flat door and listened to the muted debate that now began on the step. It wasn't Hermione; it was
nobody she recognized. Now they systematically rang the bells of the flats above, until Mr. Prudhoe came down
from the top flat, talking to himself as he went, and opened the door to them. Of the conversation that followed she
caught sufficient only to grasp the urgency of their mission, but her dishevelled mind hadn't the persistence to attend
to the details. They persuaded Prudho e to allow them into the hallway. They approa ched the door of her flat and
rapped upo n it, calling her name. She didn't reply. They rapped again, exchanging words of frustration. She
wondered if they co uld hear her smiling in the darkness. At last - after a further exchange with Prudho e - they left
her to herself.
She didn't know how long she sat on her haunches beside the door, but when she stood up again her lower limbs
were entirely numb, and she was hungry. She ate voraciously, more or less finishing off all the purchases of that
morning. The flies seemed to have procreated in the intervening hours; they crawled on the table and picked at her
slops. She let them eat. They too had their lives to live.
Finally she decided to take some air. No sooner had she stepped out of her flat, however, than the vigilant Prudhoe

was at the top of the stairs, and calling down to her.
"M iss Rider. W ait a mo ment. I have a message for yo u."
She contemplated closing the door on him, but she knew he would not rest until he had delivered his communique.
He hurried dow n the stairs - a Cassandra in shab by slippers.
"There were policemen here," he announced before he had even reached the bottom step, 'they were looking for
you."
"Oh," she said. "Did they say what they wanted?"
To talk to you. Urgently. T wo o f your friends -"
"What about them?"
"T hey died," he said. " This afternoon. T hey hav e som e kind of disease."
He had a sheet of notepaper in his hand. This he now passed over to her, relinquishing his hold an instant before she
took it.
They left that number for you to call," he said.
"Yo u've to contact them as soon as possible." His message delivered, he was already retiring up the stairs again.
Elaine looked down at the sheet of paper, with its scrawled figures. By the time she'd read the seven digits, Prudhoe
had disappeared.
She went back into the flat. For some reason she wasn't thinking of Reuben or Sonja - who, it seemed, she would not
see again - but of the sailor, Maybury, who'd seen Death and escaped it only to have it follow him like a loyal dog,
waiting its moment to leap and lick his face. She sat beside the phone and stared at the numbers on the sheet, and
then at the fingers that held the sheet and at the hands that held the fingers. Was the touch that hung so innocently at
the end of her arms now lethal? Was that what the detectives had come to tell her? That her friends were dead by her
good offices? If so, how many others had she brushed against and breathed upon in the days since her pestilential
education at the crypt? In the street, in the bus, in the supermarket: at work, at play. She thought of Bernice, lying on
the toilet floor, and of Hermione, rubbing the spot where she had been kissed as if knowing some scourge had been
passed a long to her. And sudd enly she knew, knew in her marrow , that her pursuers were right in their suspicions,
and that all these dreamy days she had been nurturing a fatal child. Hence her hunger; hence the glow of fulfilment
she felt.
She put down the note and sat in the semi-darkness, trying to work out precisely the plague's location. Was it her
fingertips; in her belly; in her eye s? N one, and yet all of these. Her first assumption had b een wrong. It wasn't a child
at all: she didn't carry it in some particular cell. It was everywhere. She and it were synonymous. That being so, there
could be no slicing out of the offending part, as they had sliced out her tumours and all that had been devoured by
them. Not that she would escape their attentions for that fact. They had come looking for her, hadn't they, to take her
back into the custod y of sterile ro oms, to dep rive her of her opinions and dignity, to make her fit only for their
loveless investigations. The thought revolted her; she would rather die as the chestnut-haired woman in the crypt had
died, sprawled in agonies, than submit to them again. She tore up the sheet of paper and let the litter drop.
It was too late for solutions anyway. The removal men had opened the door and found Death waiting on the other
side, ea ger for daylight. She was its agen t, and it - in its wisdom - had granted her imm unity; had given her strength
and a dreamy rap ture; had taken her fear away. She, in return, had spread its word , and there was no undoing tho se
labours: not now. A ll the dozens, m aybe hundreds, o f people whom she'd co ntaminated in the last few d ays would
have gone back to their families and friends, to their work places and their places of recreation, and spread the word
yet further. T hey wo uld have pa ssed its fatal prom ise to their childre n as they tucked them into bed, and to their
mates in the act of love. Priests had no doubt given it with Comm union; shopkeepers with change of a five-pound
note.
While she was thinking of this - of the disease spreading like fire in tinder - the doorbell rang again. They had come
back for her. And, as before, they were ringing the other bells in the house. She could hear Prudhoe coming
downstairs. This time he would know she was in. He would tell them so. They would hammer at the door, and when
she refused to answer As Prudhoe opened the front door she unlocked the back. As she slipped into the yard she heard voices at the flat
doo r, and then their rapp ing and their demands. She unbolted the yard gate and fled into the darkness of the alleyway. She already out of hearing range by the time they had beaten down the door.
She w anted most of all to go back to All Saints, but she knew that such a tactic would only invite arrest. T hey wo uld
expect her to follow that route, counting upon her adherence to the first cause. But she wanted to see Death's face
again, now more than ever. To speak with it. To d ebate its strategies. Their strategies. To ask why it had chosen her.
She emerged from the alley-way and watched the goings-on at the front of the ho use from the corner of the street.
This time there were more than two men; she counted four at least, moving in and out of the house. What were they

doing? Peeking through her underwear and her love-letters, most probably, examining the sheets on her bed for stray
hairs, and the mirror for traces of her reflection. But even if they turned the flat upside-down, if they examined every
print and pronoun, they wouldn't find the clues they sought. Let them search. The lover had escaped. Only her tear
stains remained, and flies at the light bulb to sing her p raises.
The night was starry, but as she walked down to the centre of the city the brightness of the Christmas illuminations
festooning trees and buildings cancelled out their light. Most of the stores were well closed by this hour, but a good
number of window-shoppers still idled along the pavements. She soon tired of the displays however, of the baubles
and the dummies, and made her way off the main road and into the side streets. It was darker here, which suited her
abstracted state of mind. T he sound o f music and laughter escaped thro ugh open bar d oors; an argument erup ted in
an upstairs gaming-room: blows were exchanged; in one doorway two lovers defied discretion; in another, a man
pissed with the gusto of a horse.
It was only now, in the relative hush of these backwaters, that she realised she was not alone. Footsteps followed
her, keeping a cautio us distance, but never straying far. H ad the trackers followed he r? W ere they hemm ing her in
even now, p reparing to snatch her into their closed order? If so, flight would only delay the inevitable. B etter to
confront them now, and dare them to come within range of her pollution. She slid into hiding, and listened as the
footsteps approached, then stepped into view.
It was not the law, but Kavanagh. Her initial shock was almost immediately superseded by a sudden comprehension
of why he had pursued her. She studied him. His skin was pulled so tight over his skull she could see the bone gleam
in the dismal light. How, her whirling thoughts demanded, had she not recognised him sooner? Not realised at that
first meeting, when he'd talked of the dead and their glamour, that he spoke as their Maker?
"I followed you," he said.
"All the way from the house?"
He nodded.
"What did they tell you?" he asked her. "The policemen. What did they say?"
"Nothing I hadn't already guessed," she replied.
"You knew?"
"In a manner of speaking. I must have done, in my heart of hearts. Remember our first conversation?"
He murmured that he did.
"All you said about Death. Suc h egotism."
He grinned suddenly, showing more bone.
"Yes," he said. "What must you think of me?"
"It ma de a kind of sense to me, even then. I didn't know why at the time. Didn't know what the future would bring -"
"W hat do es it bring?" he inquired o f her softly.
She shrugged. "Death's been waiting for me all this time, am I right?"
"Oh yes," he said, pleased by her understanding of the situation between them. He took a step towards her, and
reached to touch her face.
"You are remarkable," he said.
"N ot really."
"B ut to be so unm oved by it all. So cold."
"W hat's to be afraid of?" she said. He stroked her cheek. She almost expected his hood of skin to come unbuttoned
then, and the marbles that played in his sockets to tumble out and smash. But he kept his disguise intact, for
appearance's sake.
"I want you," he told her.
"Y es," she said. O f course he did. It had been in his every word from the beg inning, but she hadn't had the wit to
comprehend it. Every love story was - at the last - a story of death; this was what the poets insisted. Why should it be
any less true the other way about?
They could not go back to his house; the officers would be there too, he told her, for they must know of the romance
between them. Nor, of course, could they return to her flat. So they found a small hotel in the vicinity and took a
room there. Even in the dingy lift he took the liberty of stroking her hair, and then, finding her comp liant, put his
hand upon her breast. The room was sparsely furnished, but was lent some measure of charm by a splash of coloured
lights from a Christmas tree in the street below. Her lover didn't take his eyes off her for a single moment, as if even
now he exp ected her to turn tail and run at the merest flaw in his behaviour. H e needn't have conc erned himself; his
treatment of her left little cause for complaint. His kisses were insistent but not overpowering; his undressing of her except for the fumbling (a nice human touch, she thought) - was a model of finesse and sweet solemnity. She was
surprised that he had not known about her scar, only because she had become to believe this intimacy had begun on

the operating table, when twice she had gone into his arms, and twice been denied them by the surgeon's bullying.
But perhaps, being no sentimentalist, he had forgotten that first meeting. Whatever the reason, he looked to be upset
when he slipped off her dress, and there was a trembling interval when she thought he would reject her. But the
moment passed, and now he reached down to her abdom en and ran his fingers along the scar.
"It's beautiful," he said.
She w as hap py.
"I almost died under the anaesthetic," she told him.
That would have been a waste," he said, reaching up her body and working at her breast. It seemed to arouse him,
for his voice was more guttural when next he spoke. "What did they tell you?" he asked her, moving his hands up the
soft channel behind her clavicle, and stroking her there. She had not been touched in months, except by disinfected
hands; his delicacy woke shivers in her. She was so engrossed in pleasure that she failed to reply to his question. He
asked again as he moved be tween her legs.
"What did they tell you?"
Through a haze of anticipation she said: "T hey left a numbe r for me to ring. So that I could be helped . . ."
"But you didn't want help?"
"No," she breathed. "Why should I?"
She half-saw his sm ile, though her eyes wanted to flicker clo sed entirely. His appearan ce failed to stir any passion in
her; indeed there was much about his disguise (that absurd bow-tie, for one) which she thought ridiculous. With her
eyes closed, however, she could forget such petty details; she could strip the hood off and imagine him pure. When
she thought of him that way her mind pirouetted.
He took his hand s from her; she opened her eyes. He was fum bling with his belt. A s he did so som ebo dy sho uted in
the street outside. His head jerked in the direction of the window; his body tensed. She was surprised at his sudden
concern.
"It's all right," she said.
He leaned forward and put his hand to her throat.
"Be quiet," he instructed.
She lo oked up into his face. He had b egun to swea t. The excha nges in the street went on for a few minutes longer; it
was simply two late-night gamblers parting. He realized his error now.
"I thought I heard -"
"What?"
"- I thou ght I hea rd them calling my name ."
"W ho wo uld do that? " she inquired fondly. "N obo dy kno ws we're here."
He looked aw ay from the wind ow. A ll purposefulness had abruptly drained fro m him; after the instant of fear his
features had slackened. He looked almost stupid.
They cam e close ," he said. "B ut they never found me."
"Close?"
"Coming to you." He laid his head on her breasts. "So very close," he murmured. She could hear her pulse in her
head . "But I'm swift," he said, "and invisible." His ha nd strayed back d own to her sc ar, and further. "And always
neat," he added.
She sighed as he stroked her.
They admire me for that, I'm sure. Don't you think they must admire me? For being so neat?"
She rem embe red the chao s of the crypt; its indignities, its disorders.
"Not always ..." she said.
He stopped stroking her.
"O h yes," he said. " Oh yes. I never spill blood . That's a rule of m ine. Never sp ill blood."
She smiled at his boasts. She would tell him now - though surely he already knew - about her visit to All Saints, and
the handiwork of his that she'd seen there.
"So metimes you can't help bloo d being spilt," she said , "I do n't hold it aga inst you."
At these words, he began to tremble.
"What did they tell you about me? What lies"?"
"Nothing," she said, mystified by his response. "What could they know?"
"I'm a p rofessio nal," he said to her, his hand moving back up to her face. She felt intentionality in him aga in. A
seriousness in his weight as he pressed closer upon her.
"I wo n't have them lie ab out me," he said. "I won't have it."
He lifted his head from her chest and looked at her.
"All I do is stop the drummer," he said.

"The drummer?"
"I have to sto p him cleanly. In his tracks."
The wash of colours from the lights below painted his face one moment red, the next green, the next yellow;
unadulterated hues, as in a child's paint-box.
"I wo n't have them tell lies ab out me," he said again. "T o say I sp ill blood."
"T hey told me no thing," sh e assured him . He had given up his pillow entirely, and now mo ved to straddle her. His
hands were done with tender touche s.
"Shall I show you how clean I am?" he said: "How easily I stop the drummer?"
Before she could reply, his hands closed around her neck. She had no time even to gasp, let alone shout. His thumbs
were expert; they found her windpipe and pressed. She heard the drummer quicken its rhythm in her ears. "It's quick;
and clean," he was telling her, the colours still coming in predictable sequence. Red, yellow, green; red, yellow,
green.
There wa s an error here, she knew; a terrible m isunde rstanding which she couldn't quite fatho m. She struggled to
make som e sense of it.
"I don't understand," she tried to tell him, but her bruised larynx could produce no more than a gargling sound.
Too late for excuses," he said, shaking his head. "You came to me, remem ber? Yo u want the drummer stopped. W hy
else did you come?" H is grip tightened yet further. She had the sensation of her face swelling; of the blood throbbing
to jump from her eyes. "Don't you see that they came to warn you about me?" frowning as he laboured. "They came
to seduce yo u away from m e by telling you I sp ilt blood."
"N o," she squeezed the syllable out on he r last breath, but he only pressed harder to cancel her d enial.
The drummer was deafeningly loud now; though Kavanagh's mouth still opened and closed she could no longer hear
what he was telling her. It m attered little. She realise d now that he was not Death; not the clean-boned guardian she'd
waited for. In her eagerness, she had given herself into the hands of a common killer, a street-corner Cain. She
wanted to spit contempt at him, but her consciousness was slipping, the room, the lights, the face all throbbing to the
drummer's beat. And then it all stopped.
She looked do wn on the bed. Her bod y lay sprawled across it. One desperate hand had clutched at the sheet, and
clutched still, though there was no life left in it. Her tongue protruded, there was spittle on her blue lips. But (as he
had promised) there was no blood.
She hovered, her presence failing even to bring a breeze to the cobwebs in this corner of the ceiling, and watched
while Kavanagh observed the rituals of hi crime. He was bending over the body, whispering in its ear as he
rearranged it on the tangled sheets. Then he unbuttoned himself and unveiled that bone whose inflammation was the
sincerest form of flattery. What followed was comical in its gracelessness; as her body was comical, with its scars
and its places where age puckered and plucked at it. She watched his ungainly attem pts at co ngress quite remotely.
His b uttocks were pale, and imprinted with the marks his underwear had left; their mo tion pu t her in mind of a
mechanica l toy.
He kissed her as he worked, and sw allowe d the p estilence with her sp ittle; his hand s came off her bod y gritty with
her contagious cells. He knew none of this, of course. He was perfectly innocent of what corruption he embraced,
and took into himself with eve ry uninsp ired thrust.
At last, he finished. There was no gasp, no cry. He simply stopped his clockwork motion and climbed off her,
wiping himself with the edge of the sheet, and buttoning himself up again.
Guide s were calling her. She had journ eys to make, reunions to look forw ard to. B ut she did not wa nt to go; at least
not yet. She steered the vehicle of her spirit to a fresh vantage-point, where she could better see Kavanagh's face.
Her sight, or whatever sense this condition granted her, saw clearly how his features were painted over a
groundwork o f muscle, and how, beneath that intricate scheme, the bones shee ned. Ah, the bone. He was no t Dea th
of course; and yet he was. H e had the face, hadn't he? And one day, given decay's blessing, he'd sh ow it. Such a pity
that a scraping of flesh came between it and the naked eye.
Come away, the voices insisted. She knew they could not be fobbed off very much longer. Indeed there were some
amongst them she thought she knew. A moment, she pleaded, only a moment more.
Kavanagh had finished his business at the murder- scene. He checked his appearance in the wardrobe mirror, then
went to the door. She went with him, intrigued by the utter banality of his expression. He slipped out onto the silent
landing and then down the stairs, waiting for a moment when the night-porter was otherwise engaged before
stepp ing out into the street, and liberty.
Was it dawn that washed the sky, or the illuminations? Perhaps she had watched him from the corner of the room
longer than she'd thought - hours passing as moments in the state she had so recently achieved. Only at the last was
she rewarded for her vigil, as a look she recognised crossed Kavanagh's face. Hunger! The man was hungry. He
would not die of the plague, any more than she had. Its presence shone in him - gave a fresh lustre to his skin, and a

new insistence to his be lly.
He had come to her a minor murd erer, an d was going from her as D eath writ large. She laughed, seeing the selffulfilling prophecy she had unwittingly engineered. For an instant his pace slowed, as if he might have heard her.
But no; it was the drum mer he was listen ing for, beating lo uder than ev er in his ear and dem anding, as he went, a
new and deadly vigour in his every step.

HOW SPOILERS BLEED
LOCK E RAISED HIS eyes to the trees. The wind was moving in them, and the commotion of their laden branches
sounded like the river in full spate. One imper sonation of many. When he had first come to the jungle he had been
awed by the sheer multiplicity of beast and blossom, the relentless parade of life here. But he had learned better.
This burgeoning diversity was a sham; the jungle pretending itself an artless garden. It was not. Where the untutored
trespasser saw only a b rilliant show of natural splendours, Loc ke now reco gnised a subtle conspiracy at work, in
which each thing mirrored some other thing. The tre es, the river; a blossom, a bird. In a moth's wing, a mo nkey's
eye; on a lizard's back, sunlight on stones. Round and round in a dizzying circle of impersonations, a hall of mirrors
which confounded the senses and would, given time, rot reason altogether. See us now, he thought drunkenly as they
stood around Cherrick's grave, look at how we play the game too. We're living; but we impersonate the dead better
than the dead themselves.
The corpse had been one scab by the time they'd hoisted it into a sack and carried it outside to this miserable plot
behind Tetelman's house to bury. There were half a dozen other graves here. All Europeans, to judge by the names
crudely burned into the wooden crosses; killed by snakes, or heat, or longing. Tetelman attempted to say a brief
prayer in Spanish, but the roar of the trees, and the din of birds making their way home to their roosts before night
came down, all but drowned him out. He gave up eventually, and they made their way back into the cooler interior
of the house, where Stumpf was sitting, drinking brandy and staring inanely at the darkening stain on the
floorboards.
Outside, two of Tetelman's tamed Indians were shovelling the rank jungle earth on top of Cherrick's sack, eager to be
done with the work and away before nightfall. Locke watched from the window. Tiie grave-diggers didn't talk as
they laboured, but filled the shallow grave up, then flattened the earth as best they could with the leather-tough soles
of their feet. As they did so the stamping of the ground took on a rhythm. It occurred to Locke that the men were
probably the worse for bad whisky; he knew few Indians who didn't drink like fishes. Now, staggering a little, they
began to dance on Cherrick's grave.
"Locke?"
Locke wo ke. In the darkness, a cigarette glowed. As the smo ker drew on it, and the tip burned more intensely,
Stumpf s wasted features swa m up out of the night.
"Locke? Are you awake?"
"What do you want?"
"I can't sleep," the mask replied, "I've been thinking. The supply plane comes in from Santarem the day after
tomo rrow. W e cou ld be back there in a few hours. Out of all this."
"Sure."
"I mean p erma nently," S tumpf said. "A way."
"Permanently?"
Stumpf lit another ciga rette from the embers o f his last befo re saying, "I do n't believe in curses. Do n't think I do."
"Who said anything about curses?"
"Y ou saw Cherrick's body. W hat hap pened to him . . ."
"There's a disease," said Locke, "what's it called? - when the blood doesn't set properly?"
"Haem ophilia," Stumpf replied. "He didn't have haemophilia and we both know it. I've seen him scratched and cut
doz ens of times. H e mended like you or I."
Locke snatched at a mosquito that had alighted on his chest and ground it out between thumb and forefinger.
"All right. Then what killed him?"
"Y ou saw the wo unds better than I did, but it see med to me his skin just broke open as so on as he was touched."
Locke nodde d. "T hat's the way it looked."
"M aybe it's something he cau ght off the Indians."

Locke took the point."I didn't touch any of them," he said.
"Neither did I. But he did, remember?"
Locke remembered; scenes like that weren't easy to forget, try as he might. "Christ," he said, his voice hushed.
"W hat a fucking situation."
"I'm go ing back to S antarem. I do n't want them com ing loo king for me."
"T hey're not going to ."
"How do you know? W e screwed up back there. We could have bribed them. Got them off the land some other
way."
"I doub t it. You heard what T etelma n said. A ncestra l territories."
"Y ou can have my share of the land," Stumpf said, "I want no p art of it."
"You mean it then? You're getting out?"
"I feel d irty. W e're spo ilers, Locke."
"It's your funeral."
"I mean it. I'm not like you. Never really had the stomach for this kind of thing. Will you buy my third off me?"
"D epends o n your price."
"W hateve r you want to give. It's yours."

Confessional over, Stumpf returned to his bed, and lay down in the darkness to finish off his cigarette. It would soon
be light. Another jungle dawn: a precious interval, all too short, before the world began to sweat. How he hated the
place. At least he hadn't touched any of the Indians; hadn't even been within breathing distance of them. Whatever
infection they'd passed on to Cherrick he could surely not be tainted. In less than forty-eight hours he would be away
to Santarem, and then on to some city, any city, where the tribe could never follow. He'd already done his penance,
hadn't he? Paid for his greed and his arrogance with the rot in his abdomen and the terrors he knew he would never
quite shake off again. Let that be punishment enough, he prayed, and slipped, before the monkeys began to call up
the day, into a spoiler's sleep.
A gem-backed beetle, trapped beneath Stumpf's mosquito net, hummed around in diminishing circles, looking for
some way out. It could find none. Eventually, exhausted by the search, it hovered over the sleeping man, then landed
on his forehead. There it wandered, drinking at the pores. Beneath its imperceptible tread, Stumpf s skin opened and
broke into a trail of tiny wounds.
They had come into the Indian hamlet at noon; the sun a basilisk's eye. At first they had thought the place deserted.
Locke and C herrick had advanced into the compound, leaving the dysentery-ridden Stumpf in the jeep, out of the
worst of the heat. It was Cherrick who first noticed the child. A pot-bellied boy of perhaps four or five, his face
painted with thick bands of the scarlet vegetable dye urucu, had slipped out from his hiding place and come to peer
at the trespassers, fearless in his curiosity. Cherrick stood still; Locke did the same. One by one, from the huts and
from the shelter of the trees around the compound , the tribe appeared and stared, like the boy, at the newcomers. If
there was a flicker of feeling on their broad, flat-nosed faces, Locke could not read it. These people - he thought of
every Indian as part of one wretched tribe - were imp ossible to de ciphe r; deceit was their only skill.
"W hat are you doing here? " he sa id. The sun was baking the bac k of his neck. "T his is our land." The boy still
looked up at him. His almond eyes refused to fear.
"They don't understand you," Cherrick said.
"G et the K raut ou t here. Let him explain it to them."
"H e can't move."
"G et him out here," Lo cke said. "I d on't care if he's shat his pants."
Cherrick backed away down the tra ck, leaving Lo cke standing in the ring o f huts. He looked from do orwa y to
doorway, from tree to tree, trying to estimate the numbers. There were at most three dozen Indians, two- thirds of
them women and children; descendants of the great peoples that had once roamed the Amazon Basin in their tens of
thousands. Now those tribes were all but decimated. The forest in which they had prospered for generations was
being levelled and burned; eight-lane highways were speeding through their hunting grounds. All they held sacred the wilderness and their place in its system - was being trampled and trespassed: they were exiles in their own land.
But still they declined to pay ho mage to their new m asters, despite the rifles they b rought. Only death would
convince them of defeat, Locke mused.
Cherrick found Stumpf slumped in the front seat of the jeep, his pasty features more wretched than ever.
"Locke wants you," he said, shaking the German out of his doze. "The village is still occupied. You'll have to speak

to them ."
Stumpf groaned . "I can 't move," he said, I'm dying-"
"Locke wants you dead or alive," Cherrick said. Their fear of Locke, which went unspoken, was perhaps one of the
two things they had in common; that and greed.
"I feel awful," Stumpf said.
"If I do n't bring you, he'll only co me him self," Cherrick pointed out. This was indisputab le.
Stumpf threw the othe r man a despairing glance, then no dde d his jo wly head . "All right," he said, "he lp me."
Cherrick had no wish to lay a hand on Stumpf. The man stank of his sickness; he seemed to be oozing the contents
of his gut through his pore s; his skin had the lustre of rank meat. H e took the outstretched hand nevertheless.
Without aid, Stumpf
would never make the hundred yards from jeep to compound.
Ahead, Locke was shouting.
"G et moving," said C herrick , hauling S tumpf down from the front seat and towards the b awling voice. " Let's get it
over and done with."
W hen the two men returned into the circle of huts the sce ne had scarcely changed. Locke glanced around at S tumpf.
"We got trespassers," he said.
"So I see," Stumpf returned wearily.
"Tell them to get the fuck off our land," Locke said. "Tell them this is our territory: we bought it. Without sitting
tenants."
Stumpf nodde d, not meeting Locke's rab id eyes. S ome times he hated the man almo st as muc h as he hated himself.
"Go on . . ." Locke said, and gestured for Cherrick to relinquish his support of Stumpf. This he did. The German
stumbled forward, head bowed. He took several seconds to work out his patter, then raised his head and spoke a few
wilting words in bad Portuguese. The pronouncement was met with the same blank looks as Locke's performance.
Stumpf tried again, re-arranging his inadeq uate vocabulary to try and awa ke a flicker of understand ing amongst
these savages.
The boy who had been so entertained by Locke's cavortings now stood staring up at this third demon, his face wiped
of smiles. This one was nowhere near as comical as the first. He was sick and haggard; he smelt of death. The boy
held his nose to keep from inhaling the badness off the man.
Stumpf peered through greasy eyes at his audience. If they did understand, and were faking their blank
inco mp rehension, it was a flawless performance. His limited skills defeated , he turned giddily to L oc ke. T hey don 't
understand me," he said.
Tell them again."
"I don't think they speak Po rtuguese."
Tell them anyway."
Cherrick cocked his rifle. "W e don't have to talk with them," he said under his breath. They're on our land. We're
within ou r rights -"
"N o," said L oc ke. T here's no need for shoo ting. Not if we can persuade them to go peacefully." T hey don't
unde rstand plain comm on sense," Cher rick said . "Lo ok at the m. T hey're anim als. Living in filth."
Stumpf had begun to try and communicate again, this time accompanying his hesitant words with a pitiful mime.
"Tell them we've got work to do here," Locke prompted him.
"I'm trying m y best," Stumpf replied testily.
"W e've got p apers."
"I don't think they'd be much impressed," Stump f returned, with a cautious sarcasm that was lost on the other man.
"Just tell them to move on. F ind some o ther piece of land to squat on."
W atching Stumpf put these sentiments into word and sign-language, Locke was already running through the
alternative options available. Either the Indians - the T xukaham ei or the Achu al or whatever d amn family it was accepted their demands and moved on, or else they would have to enforce the edict. As Cherrick had said, they were
within their rights. They had papers from the development authorities; they had maps marking the division between
one territory and the next; they had every sanction from signature to bullet. He had no active desire to shed blood.
The world was still too full of bleeding heart liberals and do e-eyed sentimentalists to make genocide the most
convenient solution. But the gun had been used before, and would be used again, until every unwashed Indian had
put on a p air of trousers and given up eating mo nkeys.
Indeed, the din of liberals no twithstand ing, the gun had its appeal. It was swift, and absolute. Once it had had its
short, sharp say there was no danger of further debate; no chance that in ten years" time some mercenary Indian
who'd found a copy of Marx in the gutter could come back claiming his tribal lands - oil, minerals and all. Once

gone, they were gone forever.
At the thought of these scarlet-faced savages laid low, Locke felt his trigger-finger itch; physically itch. Stumpf had
finished his encore; it had met with no response. Now he groaned, and turned to Locke.
I'm going to be sick," he said. H is face wa s bright white; the glamour of his skin mad e his sma ll teeth loo k dingy.
"Be my guest," Locke replied.
"Please. I have to lie dow n. I don't want them watching me."
Locke shook his head. "You don't move 'til they listen. If we don't get any joy from them, you're going to see
something to be sick about." Locke toyed with the stock of his rifle as he spoke, running a broken thumb-nail along
the nicks in it. The re were perhaps a do zen; ea ch one a hum an grave. T he jungle concealed murder so easily; it
almost seemed, in its cryptic fashion, to condone the crime.
Stumpf turned away from Locke and scanned the mute assembly. There were so many Indians here, he thought, and
though he ca rried a pistol he was an inept m arksm an. Suppo se they rushed Locke, Cherrick and himself? He would
not survive. And yet, looking at the Indians, he could see no sign of aggression amongst them. Once they had been
warriors; now? Like beaten children, sullen and wilfully stupid. There was some trace of beauty in one or two of the
younger women; their skins, though grimy, were fine, their eyes black. Had he felt more healthy he might have been
aroused by their nakedness, tempted to press his hands upon their shiny bodies. As it was their feigned
incomprehension merely irritated him. They seemed, in their silence, like another species, as mysterious and
unfathomable as mules or birds. Hadn't somebod y in Uxituba told him that many of these people didn't even give
their child ren proper nam es? T hat eac h was like a limb o f the tribe, anonym ous and therefore unfixab le? H e cou ld
believe that now, meeting the same dark stare in each pair of eyes; could believe that what they faced here was not
three doz en individuals but a fluid system of hatred mad e flesh. It made him shud der to think of it. Now , for the first
time since their appearance, one of the assembly moved. He was an ancient; fully thirty years older than most of the
tribe. He, like the rest, was all but naked. The sagging flesh of his limbs and breasts resembled tanned hide; his step,
though the pale eyes suggested blindness, was perfectly confident. Once standing in front of the interlopers he
opened his mouth - there were no teeth set in his rotted gums - and spoke. What emerged from his scraggy throat
was not a language made of words, but only of sound; a pot-pourri of jungle noises. There was no discernible pattern
to the outpouring, it was simply a display - awesome in its way - of impersonations. The man could murmur like a
jaguar, screech like a parrot; he co uld find in his throat the splash of rain on o rchids; the howl of monkeys.
The sounds made Stumpf s gorge rise. The jungle had diseased him, dehydrated him and left him wrung out. Now
this rheumy-eyed stick-man was vomiting the whole odious place up at him. The raw heat in the circle of huts made
Stumpf s head beat, and he was sure, as he stood listening to the sage's din, that the old man was measuring the
rhythm of his nonsense to the thud at his temples and wrists.
"What's he saying?" Locke demanded.
"W hat do es it sound like? " Stum pf replied, irritated by Lo cke's idiot questio ns. "It's all noises."
"The fucker's cursing us," Cherrick said.
Stumpf looked round at the third man. Cherrick's eyes were starting from his head.
"It's a curse ," he said to Stumpf.
Locke laughed, unmoved b y Cherrick's apprehen sion. He pushed Stumpf out of the way so as to face the old man,
whose song-speech had now lowered in pitch; it was almost lilting. He was singing twilight, Stumpf thought: that
brief ambiguity between the fierce day and the suffocating night. Yes, that was it. He could hear in the song the purr
and the coo of a drowsy kingdom. It was so persuasive he wanted to lie down on the spot where he stood, and sleep.
Locke broke the spell. "W hat are you saying?" he spa t in the tribesman's rnazy face. "T alk sense!"
But the night-noises only whispered on, an unbroken stream.
"This is our village," another voice now broke in; the man spoke as if translating the elder's words. Locke snapped
round to locate the speaker. H e was a thin youth, whose skin might onc e have been golden. "O ur village. Our land."
"You speak English," Locke said.
"Some," the youth replied.
"W hy didn't you answer me earlier?" Locke demanded, his fury exacerbated by the disinterest on the Indian's face.
"N ot my place to speak," the man replied . "He is the eld er."
"The Chief, you mean?"
"T he Chief is dea d. All his family is dea d. T his is the wisest of us -"
"T hen you tell him -"
"N o need to tell," the young ma n bro ke in. "H e under stand s you."
"He speaks English too?"
"N o," the other replied , "but he und erstand s you. Y ou are ... transparent."
Locke half-grasped that the youth was implying an insult here, but wasn't quite certain. He gave Stumpf a puzzled

look. The German shook his head. Locke returned his attention to the youth. "Tell him anyway," he said, "tell all of
them. T his is our land. W e bought it."
"The tribe has always lived here," the reply came.
"Not any longer," Cherrick said.
"W e've got papers -" Stumpf said mildly, still hoping that the confrontation might end peacefully,"- from the
gove rnment."
"We were here before the government," the tribesman replied.
The old man had stoppe d talking the forest. Perhaps, Stumpf thought, he's coming to the beginning of anothe r day,
and stopped. H e was turning away no w, indifferent to the presence of these unwelco me guests.
"Call him b ack," Lo cke dem anded , stabbing his rifle towards the young tribesman. T he gesture was unam biguo us.
"M ake him tell the rest of them they've got to go-"
The young man seemed unimpressed by the threat of Locke's rifle, however, and clearly unwilling to give orders to
his elder, whatever the imperative. He simply watched the old man walk back towards the hut from which he had
emerged. Around the compound, others were also turning away. The old man's withdrawal apparently signalled that
the show was over.
"No." said Cherrick, "you're not listening." The colour in his cheeks had risen a tone; his voice, an octave. He
pushed forward , rifle raised. "You fucking scum!"
Despite his hysteria, he was rapidly losing his audience. The old man had reached the doorway of his hut, and now
bent his back and disappeared into its recesse s; the few m emb ers of the tribe who were still showing som e interest in
proceedings were viewing the Europeans with a hint of pity for their lunacy. It only enraged Cherrick further.
"Listen to me!" he shrieked, sweat flicking off his brow as he jerked his head at one retreating figure and then at
another. "L isten, you bastards."
"Easy . . ." said Stumpf.
The app eal triggered Cherrick. Without warning he raised his rifle to his shoulder, aimed at the open door of the hut
into which the old m an had va nished and fired. Birds rose from the crow ns of adjace nt trees; dogs took to their heels.
From within the hut came a tiny shriek, not like the old man's voice at all. As it sounded, Stum pf fell to his knees,
hugging his belly, his gut in spasm. Face to the ground, he did not see the diminutive figure emerge from the hut and
totter into the sunlight. Even when he did look up, and saw how the child with the scarlet face clutched his belly, he
hoped his eyes lied.
But they did not. It was blood that came from between the child's tiny fingers, and death that had stricken his face.
He fell forward on to the impacted earth of the hut's threshold, twitched, and died.
Somewhere amongst the huts a woman began to sob quietly. For a moment the world spun on a pin-head, balanced
exquisitely betw een silence and the cry that must break it, between a truc e held and the com ing atrocity.
"Yo u stupid bastard," Locke murmured to Cherrick. Under his condemnation, his voice trembled. "Ba ck off," he
said. "Get up, Stumpf. W e're not waiting. G et up and co me no w, or d on't com e at all."
Stumpf was still looking at the bo dy of the child. Suppressing his moa ns, he go t to his feet.
"Help me ," he said. Locke lent him an arm. "Cover us," he said to Cherrick.
The man nodded , deathly-pale. Som e of the tribe had turned their gaze on the Euro peans" retreat, their expressions,
despite this tragedy, as inscrutable as ever. Only the sobbing woman, presumably the dead child's mother, wove
between the silent figures, keening her grief.
Cherrick's rifle shook as he kept the bridgehead. He'd done the mathematics; if it came to a head-on collision they
had little chance of survival. But even now, with the enemy making a getaway, there was no sign of movement
amo ngst the Indians. Just the accusing facts: the d ead boy; the warm rifle. Cherrick chanced a look over his
shoulder. Locke and Stumpf were already within twenty yards of the jeep, and there was still no move from the
savages.
Then, as he looked back towards the comp ound, it seemed as though the tribe breathed together one solid breath, and
hearing that sound C herrick felt death wedge itself like a fish-bone in his thro at, too d eep to be plucked out by his
fingers, too big to be shat. It was just waiting there, lodged in his anatomy, beyond argument or appeal. He was
distracted from its presence by a movement at the door of the hut. Quite ready to make the same mistake again, he
took firmer hold of his rifle. The old man had re-appeared at the door. He stepped over the corpse of the boy, which
was lying where it had toppled. Again, Cherrick glanced behind him. Surely they were at the jeep? But Stumpf had
stumbled; Locke was even now dragging him to his feet. Cherrick, seeing the old man advancing towards him, took
one cautious step backwards, followed by another. But the old man was fearless. He walked swiftly across the
compound coming to stand so close to Cherrick, his body as vulnerable as ever, that the barrel of the rifle prodded
his shrunken belly.
There was blood on both his hands, fresh enough to run down the man's arms when he displayed the palms for

Cherrick's benefit. Had he touched the boy, Cherrick wondered, as he stepped out of the hut? If so, it had been an
astonishing sleight-of-hand, for Cherrick had seen nothing. Trick or no trick, the significance of the display was
perfectly apparent: he was being accused of murder. Cherrick wasn't about to be cowed, however. He stared back at
the old man, matching defiance with defiance.
But the old bastard did nothing, except show his bloody palms, his eyes full of tears. Cherrick could feel his anger
growing again. He poked the man's flesh with his finger.
"Y ou don't frighten m e," he said, "you understand? I'm not a fo ol."
As he spoke he seemed to see a shifting in the old man's features. It was a trick of the sun, of course, or of birdshadow, but there w as, beneath the corruption of age, a hint of the child now d ead at the hut d oor: the tiny mo uth
even seemed to smile. Then, as subtly as it had appeared, the illusion faded again.
Cherrick withdrew his hand from the old man's chest, narrowing his eyes against further mirages. He then renewed
his retrea t. He had taken three steps only when something bro ke co ver to his left. He sw ung ro und, ra ised his rifle
and fired. A piebald pig, one of several that had been grazing around the huts, was checked in its flight by the b ullet,
which struck it in the neck. It seemed to trip over itself, and collap sed headlong in the dust.
Cherrick swung his rifle back towards the old man. But he hadn't moved, except to open his mouth. His palate was
making the sound of the dying pig. A choking squeal, pitiful and ridiculous, which followed Cherrick back up the
path to the jeep. Locke had the engine running. "Get in," he said. Cherrick needed no enco uragement, but flung
himself into the front seat. T he interio r of the ve hicle was filthy hot, and stank of Stump f s bod ily functions, but it
was as near safety as they'd been in the last hour.
"It was a pig," he said, "I shot a pig."
"I saw," said Locke.
That old bastard
He didn't finish. He was looking down at the two fingers with which he had prodded the elder. "I touched him," he
muttered, perplexed by what he saw. The fingertips were bloody, though the flesh he had laid his fingers upon had
been clean.
Locke igno red C herrick 's confusion and back ed the jeep up to turn it arou nd, then dro ve away from the ham let,
down a track that seemed to have become choked with foliage in the hour since they'd come up it. There was no
discernible p ursuit.
The tiny trading post to the south of Averio was scant of civilisation, but it sufficed. There were white faces here,
and clean water. Stumpf, whose condition had deteriorated on the return journey, was treated by Dancy, an
Englishman who had the manner of a disenfranchised earl and a face like hammered steak. He claimed to have been
a doctor o nce up on a so ber time, and though he had no evidence o f his qualifications nobo dy contested his right to
deal with Stum pf. The G erma n was d elirious, and on occ asion violent, but Dancy, his sm all hand s heavy with gold
rings, seemed to take a positive delight in nursing his thrashing patient. W hile Stum pf rave d beneath his mosquito
net, Locke and Cherrick sat in the lamp-lit gloom and drank, then told the story of their encounter with the tribe. It
was Tetelman, the owner of the trading post's stores, who had most to say when the report was finished. He knew the
Indians well.
"I've been here years," he said, feed ing nuts to the mangy monkey that scam pered on his lap. "I kno w the way these
peo ple think. They may act as tho ugh they're stupid; cowards even. T ake it from me , they're neither."
Cherrick grunted. The quicksilver monkey fixed him with vacant eyes. "They didn't make a move on us," Cherrick
said, "even though they outnumbered us ten to one. If that isn't cowardice, what is it?"
Tetelman settled b ack in his creaking chair, throwing the animal o ff his lap. H is face wa s radd led and used. Only his
lips, constantly rewetted from his glass, had any colour; he looked, thought Locke, like an old whore.
"Thirty years ago," Tetelman said, "this whole territory was their homeland. Nob ody wanted it; they went where
they liked, did what they liked. As far as we whites were concerned the jungle was filthy and disease-infected: we
wanted no part of it. And, of course, in some ways we were right. It is filthy and disease-infected; but it's also got
reserves we now want badly: mine rals, oil maybe: power."
"W e paid for that land," said Lo cke, his fingers jittery on the cra cked rim of his glass. "It's all we've got now."
Tetelman sneere d. "P aid? " he sa id. The mo nkey ch at tered at his feet, ap parently as amused by this claim as its
master. "No. You just paid for a blind eye, so you could take it by force. You paid for the right to fuck up the Indians
in any way you co uld. T hat's what your do llars bo ught, M r. Locke. T he governm ent of this country is counting off
the months until every tribe on the sub-continent is wiped out by you or your like. It's no use to play the outraged
innocents. I've be en here too long ..."
Cherrick spat on to the bare floor. Tetelman's speech had heated his blood.
"And so why'd you come here, if you're so fucking clever?" he asked the trader.

"Same reason as you," Tetelman replied plainly, staring off into the trees beyond the plot of land behind the store.
Their silhouettes shook against the sky; wind, or night-birds.
"W hat reason's that?" Cherrick said, barely keeping his hostility in check.
"Greed ," Tetelman replied mildly, still watching the trees. Something scampered across the low wood en roof. The
monkey at Tetelman's feet listened, head cocked. "I thought I could make my fortune out here, the same way you do.
I gave myself two years. Three at the most. That was the best part of two decades ago." He frowned; whatever
thoughts passed b ehind his eyes, they were b itter. "T he jungle eats yo u up and sp its you ou t, sooner or later."
"Not me," said Locke.
Tetelman turned his eyes on the man. They were wet. "Oh yes," he said politely. "Extinction's in the air, Mr. Locke.
I can smell it." Then he turned back to looking at the window.
W hatever was o n the roof now had companions.
"They won't come here, will they?" said Cherrick. "They won't follow us?"
The questio n, spok en almo st in a whisp er, begged for a rep ly in the negative. Try as he might Cherrick couldn't
dislod ge the sights of the p revious day. It wasn't the boy's corp se that so haunted him; that he co uld soon learn to
forget. But the elder - with his shifting, sunlit face - and the palms raised as if to display some stigmata, he was not
so forgettable.
"Do n't fret," Tetelman said, with a trace of conde scension. "Sometimes one or two of them will drift in here with a
parrot to sell, or a few p ots, but I've never seen them come here in a ny numbers. T hey do n't like it. This is
civilisation as far as they're concerned, and it intimidates them. Besides, they wouldn't harm my guests. They need
me."
"Need you?" said Locke; who could need this wreck of a man?
"T hey use our m edicines. Dancy supplies them. A nd blankets, o nce in a while. As I said, they're not so stupid."
Next door, Stumpf had begun to howl. Dancy's con soling voice could be heard, attempting to talk down the panic.
He was plainly failing.
"Yo ur friend's gone bad," said Tetelman.
"No friend," Cherrick replied.
"It rots," T etelma n murmured, half to himself.
"What does?"
The soul." The wo rd was utterly out of place from Tetelman's whisky-glossed lips. "It's like fruit, you se e. It rots."
Somehow Stumpf's cries gave force to the observation. It was not the voice of a wholesome creature; there was
putrescence in it.
More to direct his attention away from the German's din than out of any real interest, Cherrick said: "What do they
give you for the medicine and the blankets? Women?"
The possibility clearly entertained Tetelman; he laughed, his gold teeth gleaming. "I've no use for women," he said.
"I've had the syph for too many years." He clicked his fingers and the monkey clambered back up on to his lap. "The
soul," he said, "isn't the only thing that ro ts."
"Well, what do you get from them then?" Locke said. "For your supplies?"
"Artifacts," T etelma n replied. "B owls, jugs, mats. The Americans buy them off me, and sell them again in
Manhattan. Everybo dy wants som ething m ade by an extinct tribe these days. M emento mori."
"Extinct?" said Locke. The word had a seductive ring; it sounded like life to him.
"O h certainly," said Tetelman. "T hey're as go od as gone . If you do n't wipe them out, they'll do it themselves."
"Suicide?" Locke said.
"In the ir fashion. They just lose heart. I've seen it happe n half a dozen times. A tribe loses its land, and its ap petite
for life goes with it. They stop taking care of themselves. The women don't get pregnant any more; the young men
take to drink, the old m en just starve themselves to death. In a year or two it's like they never existed."
Locke swallowed the rest of his drink, silently saluting the fatal wisdom of these people. They knew when to die,
which was more than co uld be said for some he'd met. The tho ught of their death-wish abso lved him of any last
vestiges of guilt. What was the gun in his hand, except an instrument of evolution?

On the fourth day after their arrival at the post, Stumpf's fever abated, much to Dancy's disappointment. The worst of
it's over," he anno unced. "G ive him two more d ays" rest and yo u can get back to you r labo urs."
"W hat are your plans?" Tetelrnan wanted to know.
Locke was watching the rain from the verandah. Sheets of water pouring from clouds so low they brushed the treetops. Then, just as suddenly as it had arrived, the downpour was gone, as though a tap had been turned off. Sun
broke through; the jungle, new-washed, was steaming and sprouting and thriving again.

"I don't know what we'll do," said Locke. "M aybe get ourselves some help and go back in there."
"There are ways," Tetelman said.
Cherrick, sitting beside the door to get the benefit of what little breeze was available, picked up the glass that had
scarcely been out o f his hand in recent days, and filled it up again. "N o mo re guns," he sa id. He had n't touched his
rifle since the y'd arrived at the po st; in fact he ke pt from contact with anything bu t a bottle and his bed. His skin
seemed to crawl and creep perp etually.
"No need for guns," Tetelman murmured. The statement hung on the air like an unfulfilled promise.
"G et rid of them without guns?" said Locke. "If you mea n waiting for them to die o ut naturally, I'm not that patient."
"N o," said T etelma n, "we can be swifter than that."
"How?"
Tetelman gave the man a lazy look. "They're my livelihood," he said, "or part of it. You're asking me to help you
make myself bankrupt."
He not only looks like an old whore, Locke thought, he thinks like one. "What's it worth? Your wisdom?" he asked.
"A cut of whatever you find on your land," Tetelman replied.
Locke nodde d. "W hat have we got to lose? C herrick ? Y ou agree to cut him in?" C herrick 's consent was a shrug. "A ll
right," Locke said, 'talk."
"They need medicines," Tetelman explained, "because they're so susceptible to our diseases. A decent plague can
wipe them o ut prac tically overnight."
Locke thought about this, not looking at Tetelman.
"O ne fell swoop," Tetelman continued. "T hey've go t practically no d efence s against certain b acteria. Nev er had to
build up any resistance. The clap . Smallpox. Even mea sles."
"How?" said Locke.
Another silence. Down the steps of the verandah, where civilization finished, the jungle was swelling to meet the
sun. In the liquid heat plants blossomed and rotted and blossomed again.
"I asked how," Locke said.
"B lankets," Tetelman replied , "dead m en's blank ets."
A little before the dawn of the night after Stumpf's recovery, Cherrick woke suddenly, startled from his rest by bad
dreams. Outside it was pitch-dark; neither moon nor stars relieved the depth of the night. But his body-clock, which
his life as a mercenary had trained to impressive accuracy, told him that first light was not far off, and he had no
wish to lay his head down again and sleep. Not with the old man waiting to be dreamt. It wasn't just the raised
pa lms, the bloo d glistening, that so distressed C herrick. It w as the words he'd d ream t com ing from the old m an's
toothless mouth which had brou ght on the cold sweat that now encased his bod y. W hat were the wo rds? He couldn't
recall them now, but wanted to; wanted the sentiments dragged into wakefulness, where they could be dissected and
dismissed as ridiculous. They wouldn't come though. He lay on his wretched cot, the dark wrapping him up too
tightly for him to move, and suddenly the bloody hands were there, in front of him, suspended in the pitch. There
was no face, no sky, no tribe. Just the hands.
"Dream ing," Cherrick told himself, but he knew better.
And now, the voice. He was getting his wish; here were the words he had dreamt spoken. Few of them made sense.
Cherrick lay like a newborn bab y, listening to its p arents talk but unable to make any significance o f their
exchanges. He was ignorant, wasn't he? He tasted the sourness of his stupidity for the first time since childhood. T he
voice made him fearful of ambiguities he had ridden roughshod over, of whispers his shouting life had rendered
inaudible. He fumbled for comprehension, and was not entirely frustrated. The man was speaking of the world, and
of exile fro m the world; of being bro ken alw ays by what one seeks to po ssess. Cherrick struggled , wishing he cou ld
stop the voice and ask for explanation. But it was already fading, ushered away by the wild address of parrots in the
trees, raucous and gaudy voices erupting suddenly on every side. Through the mesh of Cherrick's mosquito net he
could see the sky flaring through the branches. He sat up. Hands and voice had gone; and with them all but an
irritating murmur of what he had almost understood. He had thrown off in sleep his single sheet; now he looked
down at his body with distaste. His back and buttocks, and the underside of his thighs, felt sore. Too much sweating
on coarse sheets, he thought. Not for the first time in recent days he remembered a small house in Bristol which he
had once known as home.
The noise of bird s was filling his head. He hauled himself to the edge of the bed and p ulled b ack the mosquito net.
The crude weave of the net seemed to scour the palm of his hand as he gripped it. He disengaged his hold, and
cursed to him self. There wa s again to day an itch of tend erness in his skin that he'd suffered since com ing to the post.
Even the soles of his feet, pressed on to the floor by the weight of his body, seemed to suffer each knot and splinter.
He wanted to be away from this place, and

bad ly.
A warm trickle acro ss his wrist caught his attention, and he was startled to see a rivulet of blood m oving dow n his
arm fro m his hand. T here w as a cut in the cushion of his thumb , where the mo squito net had apparently nicked his
flesh. It was bleeding, though not copiously. He sucked at the cut, feeling again that peculiar sensitivity to touch that
only drink, and that in abundance, dulled. Spitting out blood, he began to dre ss.
The clothes he put on were a scourge to his back. His sweat-stiffened shirt rubbed against his shoulders and neck; he
seemed to feel every thread chafing his nerve-endings. The shirt might have been sackcloth, the way it abraded him.
Next door, he heard Locke moving around. Gingerly finishing his dressing, Cherrick went through to join him.
Locke was sitting at the table by the window. He was poring over a map of T etelman's, and drinking a cup of the
bitter co ffee Dancy was so fond of brewing, which he drank with a dollop o f cond ensed milk. T he two men had little
to say to each other. Since the incident in the village all pretence to respect or friendship had disappeared. Locke
now showed undisguised contempt for his sometime companion. The only fact that kept them together was the
contract they and Stumpf had signed. Rather than breakfast on whisky, which he knew Locke would take as a further
sign of his decay, Cherrick poured himself a slug of Dancy's emetic and went out to look at the morning.
He felt strange. There was something about this dawning day which made him profoundly uneasy. He knew the
dangers of courting unfounde d fears, and he tried to forbid them, b ut they were inco ntestab le. W as it simply
exhaustion that made him so painfully conscious of his many discomforts this morning? Why else did he feel the
pressure of his stinking clothes so acutely? The rasp of his boot collar against the jutting bone of his ankle, the
rhythmical chafing of his tro users against his inside leg as he walked , even the grazing air that eddied around his
exposed face and arm s. The world was pressing on him - at least that was the sensa tion - pre ssing as tho ugh it
wanted him out.
A large dragonfly, whining towards him on iridescent wings, collided with his arm. The pain of the collision caused
him to drop his mug. It didn't break, but rolled off the verandah and was lost in the undergrowth. Angered, Cherrick
slapp ed the insect off, leaving a smear of blo od o n his tattoo ed forearm to mark the dragonfly's demise. He w iped it
off. It welled up again on the same spot, full and dark.
It wasn't the blood of the insect, he rea lised, but his own. The dragonfly had c ut him so mehow, tho ugh he had felt
nothing. Irritated , he peered more close ly at his punctured skin. The wo und w as not significant, but it was pa inful.
From inside he co uld hear Lo cke talking. He was lo udly describing the inadeq uacy o f his fellow adventures to
Tetelman.
"Stumpf s not fit for this kind of work," he was saying.
"And C herrick -"
"What about me?"
Cherrick stepped into the shabby interior, wiping a new flow of blood from his arm.
Locke didn't even bother to look up at him.
"Y ou're parano id," he said plainly. "P arano id and unreliab le."
Cherrick was in no mood for taking Locke's foul- mouthing. "Just because I killed some Indian brat," he said. The
more he brushed bloo d from his bitten arm, the m ore the place stung. "Y ou just didn't have the b alls to do it
yourse lf."
Locke still didn't bother to look up from his perusal of the map. Cherrick moved across to the table.
"Are you listening to me?" he demanded, and added force to his question by slamming his fist down on to the table.
On impact his hand simply burst open. Blood spurted out in every direction, spattering the map.
Cherrick ho wled, and re eled b ackwards fro m the table with bloo d po uring from a yaw ning split in the side o f his
hand. The bone showed. Through the din of pain in his head he could hear a quiet voice. The words were inaudible,
but he knew whose they were.
"I won't hear!" he said, shaking his head like a dog with a flea in its ear. He staggered back against the wall, but the
briefest of contacts was another agony. "I won't hear, dam n you!"
"W hat the hell's he talking about?" Dancy had app eared in the doorway, woken by the cries, still clutching the
Complete W orks o f Shelley T etelma n had said he could not sleep witho ut.
Locke re-addressed the question to Cherrick, who was standing, wild-eyed, in the corner of the room, blood spitting
from between his fingers as he attempted to staunch his wounded hand. "What are you saying?"
"H e spoke to m e," C herrick replied . "T he old man."
"What old man?" Tetelman asked.
"He means at the village," Locke said. Then, to Cherrick, "Is that what you mean?"
"H e wants us out. E xiles. Like them. Like them !"
Cherrick's panic was rapidly rising out of anyone's control, least of all his own.
"The m an's got heat-stroke," Dancy said, ever the diagnostician. Locke knew better.

"Yo ur hand needs bandaging . . ." he said, slowly approaching Cherrick.
"I heard him . . ." Cherrick muttered.
"I believe yo u. Just slow do wn. W e can sort it out."
"N o," the other m an rep lied. "It's pushing us out. Everything we touch. Everything we touch."
He looked as though he wa s abo ut to top ple over, and Lo cke reached for him. As his hands mad e con tact with
Cherrick's shoulders the flesh beneath the shirt split, and Locke's hands were instantly soaked in scarlet. He
withdrew them, appalled. Cherrick fell to his knees, which in their turn became new wounds. He stared down
as his shirt an d trousers da rkened. "W hat's happ ening to me? " he wept.
Dancy mo ved towards him. "Let me help."
"No ! Don't touch me!" Cherrick pleaded, but Dancy wasn't to be denied his nursing.
"It's all right," he said in his best bedside manner.
It wasn't. Dancy's grip, intended only to lift the man from his bleeding knees, opened new cuts wherever he
took hold. Dancy felt the blood sprout beneath his hand, felt the flesh slip away from the bone. The sensation
bested even his taste for agony. Like Locke, he forsook the lost man.
"He's rotting," he murmured.
Cherrick's bod y had split now in a dozen o r more p laces. He tried to stand, half staggering to his feet only to collapse
again, his flesh breaking open whenever he touched wall or chair or floor. There was no help for
him. All the others could do wa s stand around like spectators at an e xecution, awaiting the final throes.
Even Stumpf had roused himself from his bed and come through to see what all the shouting was about. He stood
leaning against the door-lintel, his d isease-thinned face all disbelief.
Another minute, and blood-loss defeated Cherrick.
He keeled over and sp rawled , face down, across the floo r. Dancy cro ssed b ack to him and cro uched on his
haunches beside his head.
"Is he dead?" Locke asked.
"Almost," Dancy replied.
"Rotted," said Tetelman, as though the word explained the atrocity they had just witnessed. H e had a crucifix in
his hand, large and crudely carved. It looked like Indian handiwork, Locke thought. The M essiah impaled on the tree
was sloe-eyed and indecently naked. He smiled, despite nail and thorn.
Dancy touched Cherrick's body, letting the blood come with his touch, and turned the man over, then
leaned in tow ards C herrick 's jittering face. T he dying man 's lips were m oving, oh so slightly.
"W hat are you saying?" Dancy asked; he leaned closer still to catch the man's words. Cherrick's mouth trailed
bloody spittle, but no sound came.
Locke step ped in, pushing Dancy aside. Flies were alread y flitting around Cherrick 's face. Locke thrust his
bull-necked head into Cherrick's view. "You hear me?" he said.
The body grunted.
"You know me?"
Again, a grunt.
"You want to give me your share of the land?"
The grunt was lighter this time; almost a sigh.
There's witnesses here," Locke said. "Just say yes.
They'll hear you. Just say yes."
The bo dy was trying its best. It opened its mourh a little wider.
"Dancy -" said Locke. "You hear what he said?"
Dancy could not disguise his horror at Locke's insistence, but he nodded.
"Y ou're a witness."
"If you must," said the Englishman.
Deep in his body Cherrick felt the fish-bone he'd first choked on in the village twist itself about one final time, and
extinguish him.
"Did he say yes, Dancy?" Tetelman asked.
Dancy felt the physical proximity of the brute kneeling beside him. He didn't know what the dead man had said, but
what did it matter? Locke would have the land anyway, wouldn't he?
"H e said yes."
Locke stood up, and went in search of a fresh cup of coffee.
W ithout thinking, Dancy put his fingers on Cherrick's lids to seal his empty gaze. Under that lightest of touches the
lids broke open and blood tainted the tears that had swelled where Cherrick's sight had been.
They had buried him towards evening. The corpse, though it had lain through the noon-heat in the coolest part of the

store, amongst the dried goods, had begun to putrefy by the time it was sewn up in canvas for the burial. The night
following, Stumpf had come to Locke and offered him the last third of the territory to add to Cherrick's share, and
Locke, ever the realist, had accepted. The terms, which were punitive, had been worked out the next day. In the
evening of that day, as Stumpf had hoped, the supply plane came in. Locke, bored with Tetelman's contemptuous
looks, had also elected to fly back to Santarem, there to drink the jungle out of his system for a few days, and return
refreshed. He intended to buy up fresh supplies, and, if possible, hire a reliable driver and gunman.
The flight was noisy, cramped and tedious; the two men exchanged no words for its full duration. Stumpf just kept
his eyes o n the tracts of unfelled wilderness they passed o ver, though from one hour to the next the scene scarcely
changed. A panoram a of sable green, broken on occasion by a glint of water; perhaps a column of blue smoke rising
here and there, where land was being cleared; little else.
At Santarem they parted with a single handshake which left every nerve in Stumpf's hand scourged, and an open cut
in the tender flesh between index finger and thumb.

Santarem wasn't Rio, Locke mused as he made his way down to a bar at the south end of the town, run by a veteran
of Vietnam who had a taste for ad hoc animal shows. It was one of Locke's few certain pleasures, and one he never
tired of, to watch a local woman, face dead as a cold manioc cake, submit to a dog or a donkey fora few grubby
dollar bills. The wo men of San tarem were, o n the whole, as unpalatable as the beer, but Loc ke had no eye for beauty
in the opposite sex: it mattered only that their bodies be in reasonable working order, and not diseased. He found the
bar, and settled down for an evening exchanging dirt with the American. When he tired of that - some time after
midnight - he bought a bottle of whisky and went out looking for a face to press his heat upon.
The woman with the sq uint was about to accede to a pa rticular p eccadillo of Lock e's - one which she had resolutely
refused until drunkenness persuaded ner to abandon what little hope of dignity she had - when there came a rap on
the door.
"Fuck," said Locke.
"Si," said the woman. "Fook. Fook." It seemed to be the only word she knew in anything resembling English. Locke
ignored her and crawled drunkenly to the edge of the stained mattress. Again, the rap on the door.
"Who is it?" he said.
"Senhor Locke?" T he voice from the hallway was that of a young boy.
"Yes?" said Locke. His trousers had become lost in the tangle of sheets. "Yes? What do you want?"
"M ensagem," the bo y said. "Urgente. U rgente."
"For me? " He had found his trousers, and was pulling them on. The woma n, not at all disgruntled by this desertion,
watched him from the head of the bed, toying with an em pty bo ttle. Butto ning up , Locke cro ssed fro m be d to d oor, a
matter of three steps. He unlocked it. The boy in the darkened hallway was of Indian extraction to judge by the
black ness of his eyes, and that peculiar lustre his skin owne d. He was d ressed in a T-shirt bearing the C oca-Cola
motif.
"M ensagem, Senho r Loc ke," he said a gain, ". . . do ho spital."
The boy was staring past Locke at the woman on the bed . He grinned from ear to ea r at her cavortings.
"Hospital?" said Locke.
""S im. Hospital "Sacrado Coraq a de M aria"."
It could only be Stumpf, Locke tho ught. W ho else did he know in this corner of Hell who'd ca ll upon him? No bod y.
He looked down at the leering child.
"V em comigo," the boy sa id, 'vem comigo. Urgente."
"N o," said Lo cke. "I'm not co ming. N ot now. You understand? Later. L ater."
The boy shrugged. ". . . Ta morrendo," he said.
"Dying?" said Locke.
"Sim . Ta morrendo."
"W ell, let him. U nderstand me? Yo u go b ack, an d tell him, I won't come un til I'm ready."
Again, the boy shrugged. "E meu dinheiro? he said, as Locke went to close the door.
"You go to Hell," Locke replied, and slammed it in the child's face.
W hen, two hours and one ungainly act of passionless sex later, Locke unlocked the door, he discovered that the
child, by way of revenge, had defecated on the threshold.
The hospital "Sacrado C oraqa de M aria" was no place to fall ill; better, thought Locke, as he made his way down the
dingy corridors, to die in your own bed with your own sweat for company than come here. The stench of disinfectant
could no t entirely mask the odo ur of human pain. The walls were ingrained with it; it formed a gre ase on the lamps,

it slickened the unwashed floors. What had happened to Stump f to bring him here? a bar-room b rawl, an argument
with a pimp about the price of a woman? The German was just damn fool enough to get himself stuck in the gut over
something so petty. "Senhor Stumpf?" he asked of a woman in white he accosted in the corridor. "I'm looking for
Senhor Stumpf."
The wom an shook her head, and pointed towards a harried-looking man further down the corridor, who was taking a
moment to light a small cigar. He let go the nurse's arm and approa ched the fellow. He was enveloped in a stinking
cloud of smoke.
"I'm looking for Senhor Stumpf," he said.
The man pee red at him quizzically.
"You are Locke?" he asked.
"Y es."
"Ah." He drew on the cigar. The pungency of the expelled smoke would surely have brought on a relapse in the
hardiest patient. "I'm Doctor Edson Costa," the man said, offering his clammy hand to Locke. "Your friend has been
waiting for you to com e all night."
"What's wrong with him?"
"He's hurt his eye," Edson Costa replied, clearly indif- ferent to Stumpf s condition. "And he has some minor
abrasions o n his hands and face. But he won't have anyone go near him. He d octored himself."
"Why?" Locke asked.
The doctor looked flummoxed. "He pays to go in a clean room. Pays plenty. So I put him in. You want to see him?
Maybe take him away?"
"M aybe," said Locke, unenthusiastically.
"H is head . . ." said the doctor. "H e has d elusions."
W ithout offering further explanation, the man led off at a considerable rate, trailing tobacco-smoke as he went. The
route, that wound out of the main building and acro ss a small internal courtyard, end ed at a roo m with a glass
partition in the door.
"Here," said the doctor. "Yo ur friend. You tell him," he said as a parting snipe, "he pay more, or tomorrow he
leaves."
Locke peered through the glass partition. The grubby- white room was empty, but for a bed and a small table, lit by
the same dingy light that cursed every wretched inch of this establishment. Stumpf was not on the bed, but squatting
on the floor in the corner of the room. His left eye was covered with a bulbous padding, held in place by a bandage
ineptly wrapped around his head. Locke was looking at the man for a good time before Stumpf sensed that he was
watched. He looked up slowly. His good eye, as if in compensation for the loss of its companion, seemed to have
swelled to twice its natural size. It held enough fear for both it and its twin; indeed e nough for a dozen eyes.
Cautiously, like a man whose bones are so brittle he fears an injudicious breath will shatter them, Stumpf edged up
the wall, and crossed to the doo r. He did not open it, but addressed Locke through the glass.
"Why didn't you come?" he said.
I'm here."
"B ut sooner," said Stumpf. His face was raw , as if he'd been be aten. "Soo ner."
"I had business," Locke returned. "What happened to you?"
"It's true, Lo cke," the German said, " everything is true."
"What are you talking about?"
"T etelma n told m e. Cherrick's babb lings. Ab out being exiles. It's true. Th ey mean to d rive us o ut."
"W e're not in the jungle now," Locke said . "You've go t nothing to be afraid o f here."
"O h yes," said Stum pf, that wid e eye wider than ever. "Oh yes! I saw him -"
"Who?"
"T he elder. Fro m the village. H e was here."
"Ridiculo us."
"He was here, damn you," Stump f replied. "He was standing where you're standing. Looking at me through the
glass."
"Y ou've been d rinking to o much."
"It hap pened to Cherrick, and now it's happening to me. T hey're ma king it imp ossible to live -"
Locke snorted. I'm not having any problem," he said.
"T hey wo n't let you esca pe," Stumpf said. "None of us'll escap e. No t unless we make amends."
"Yo u've got to vacate the room," Locke said, unwilling to countenance any more of this drivel. "I've been told you've
got to get out b y morning."
"N o," said Stum pf. "I can't leave. I can't leave."

"T here's nothing to fear."
"The d ust," said the German. The d ust in the air. It'll cut me up. I got a speck in my eye - just a speck - and the next
thing my eye's bleeding as though it'll never stop. I can't hardly lie down, the sheet's like a bed of nails. The soles of
my feet fee l as if they're going to split. You've got to help me."
"How?" said Locke.
"Pay them for the room. Pay them so I can stay 'til you can get a specialist from Sao L uis. Then go back to the
village, Locke. Go back and tell them. I don't want the land. T ell them I don't own it any lon ger."
"I'll go back," said Locke, "but in my go od tim e."
"Y ou must go q uickly," said Stumpf. "Tell them to let me be."
Suddenly, the expression on the partially-masked face changed, and Stumpf looked past Locke at som e spectacle
dow n the co rridor. From his mouth, slack with fea r, came the sm all word , "Please."
Locke, mystified by the man's expression, turned. The corridor was empty, except for the fat moths that were
besetting the bulb. "T here's nothing there -" he said, turning back to the do or of Stump f s room. T he wire-mesh glass
of the window bore the d istinct imprint of two blood y palms.
"He's here," the Germ an was saying, staring fixedly at the miracle of the bleed ing glass. Locke d idn't need to ask
who. H e raised his hand to touch the ma rks. The ha ndprints, still wet, were on his side of the glass, not on Stumpf's.
"M y God," he breathed. Ho w could anyone have slipped between him and the door and laid the prints there, sliding
away again in the brief moment it had taken him to glance behind him? It defied reason. Again he looked back down
the corridor. It was still bereft of visitors. Just the bulb - swinging slightly, as if a breeze o f passage had caugh t it and the moth's wings, whispering. "W hat's happening? " Loc ke breathed. Stump f, entranced by the handprints,
touched his fingertips lightly to the glass. On contact, his fingers blossomed bloo d, trails of which idled down the
glass. He didn't remove his fingers, but stared through at Locke with despair in his eye.
"See?" he said, very quietly.
"W hat are you playing at? " Lo cke said, his voice similarly hushed. T his is some kind of trick."
"N o."
"Yo u haven't got Cherrick's disease. You can't have. You didn't touch them. We agreed, damn you," he said, more
heatedly. "Cherrick touched them, we didn't." Stumpf looked back at Locke with something close to pity on his face.
"We were wrong," he said gently. His fingers, which he had now removed from the glass, continued to bleed,
dribbling across the backs of his hands and down his arms. "This isn't something you can beat into submission,
Locke. It's out of our hands." He raised his bloody fingers, smiling at his own word-play: "See?" he said.
The G erman's sudden, fatalistic calm frightened Locke. He reached for the handle of the door, and jiggled it. The
room was locked. The key was on the inside, where Stumpf had paid for it to be.
"K eep out," S tumpf said. "K eep away fro m me ."
His smile had vanished. Locke put his shoulder to the door.
"K eep out, I said ," Stum pf shouted, his voice shrill. He back ed aw ay from the do or as L ocke took another lunge at it.
Then, seeing that the lock must soon give, he raised a cry of alarm. Locke took no notice, but continued to throw
himself at the door. There came the sound of woo d beginning to splinter.
Som ewhere nearby Lo cke he ard a wom an's voice , raised in response to Stum pf's calls. No ma tter; he'd have his
hands on the German before help could co me, and then, by Christ, he'd wipe every last vestige of a smile from the
bastard's lips. He threw himself against the door with increased fervour; again, and again. The door gave.
In the antiseptic cocoon of his room Stumpf felt the first blast of unclean air from the outside world. It was no more
than a light breeze that invaded his makeshift sanctuary, but it bore upon its back the debris of the world. Soot and
seed s, flakes of skin itched o ff a thou sand scalps, fluff and sand and twists of hair; the bright dust from a moth's
wing. Motes so small the human eye only glimpsed them in a shaft of white sunlight; each a tiny, whirling speck
quite harmless to most living organisms. But this cloud was lethal to Stumpf; in seconds his body became a field of
tiny, seeping wound s.
He screeched, and ran towards the door to slam it closed again, flinging himself into a hail of minute razors, each
lacerating him. Pressing against the door to prevent Locke from entering, his wounded hands erupted. He was too
late to keep Locke out anyhow. The man had pushed the door wide, and was now stepping through, his every
mov ement setting up further cu rrents of air to cut S tumpf down. He snatche d hold of the German's wrist. At his grip
the skin opened as if beneath a knife. Behind him, a woman loosed a cry of horror. Locke, realizing that Stumpf was
past recanting his laughter, let the man go. Adorned with cuts on every exposed part of his body, and gaining more
by the moment, Stumpf stumbled back, blind, and fell beside the bed. The killing air still sliced him as he sank
down; with each agonised shudder he woke new eddies and whirlpools to open him up.
Ashen, Locke retreated from where the body lay, and staggered out into the corridor. A gaggle of onlookers blocked
it; they parted, however, at his approach, too intimidated by his bulk and by the wild look on his face to challenge

him. He retraced his steps through the sickness-perfumed maze, crossing the small courtyard and returning into the
main building. H e briefly caught sight of Edso n Costa hurrying in pursuit, but did not linger for exp lanations.
In the vestibule, which, despite the late hour was busy with victims of one kind or another, his harried gaze alighted
on a small boy, perched on his mother's lap. He had injured his belly apparently. His shirt, which was too large for
him, was stained with blood; his face with tears. The mother did not look up as Locke m oved through the throng.
The child did ho wever. He raised his head as if know ing that Locke was about to pass by, and smiled radiantly.

There was nob ody Lo cke knew at Tetelma n's store; and all the information he co uld bully from the hired hands,
most of who m were dru nk to the point of being unab le to stand, was that their masters ha d gone off into the jungle
the pre vious d ay. Locke chased the mo st sobe r of them and p ersuaded him with threats to acco mpa ny him b ack to
the village as translator. He had no real idea of how he would make his peace with the tribe. He was only certain that
he had to argue his innocence. After all, he would plead, it hadn't been he who had fired the killing shot. There had
been misunderstandings, to be certain, but he had no t harmed the people in any way. H ow could they, in all
conscience, conspire to hurt him? If they should require som e pen ance of him he was not above acceding to their
demands. Indeed, might there not be some satisfaction in the act? He had seen so much suffering of late. He wanted
to be cleansed of it. Anything they asked, within reason, he would comply with; anything to avoid dying like the
others. He'd even give back the land.
It was a rough ride, and his morose compa nion com- plained often and incoherently. Locke turned a deaf ear. There
was no time for loitering. T heir no isy progress, the jeep engine com plaining at every new acrob atic req uired of it,
brought the jungle alive on every side, a repertoire of wails, whoops and screeches. It was an urgent, hungry place,
Locke thought: and for the first time since setting foot on this sub-continent he loathed it with all his heart. There
was no room here to make sense of events; the best that could be hoped was that one be allowed a niche to breathe
awhile b etween one squalid flowering and the next.
Half an hour before nightfall, exhausted by the journey, they came to the outskirts of the village. The place had
altered not at all in the meagre days since he'd last been here, but the ring of huts was clearly deserted. The doors
gaped; the communal fires, always alight, were ashes. There was neither child nor pig to turn an eye towards him as
he moved across the compound. When he reached the centre of the ring he stood still, looking about him for some
clue as to what had happened there. He found none, however. Fatigue irade him foolhardy. Mustering his fractured
strength, he shouted into the hush:
"Where are you?"
Two brilliant red macaws, finger-winged, rose screech- ing from the trees on the far side of the village. A few
moments after, a figure emerged from the thicket of balsa and jacaranda. It was not one of the tribe, but Dancy. He
paused b efore stepping fully into sight; then, recognising Locke, a b road smile broke his face, and he adva nced into
the compound. B ehind him, the foliage shook as others made their way through it. Tetelman was there, as were
several No rwegians, led b y a man called Bjo rnstrom , whom Locke had enco untered briefly at the trad ing po st. His
face, beneath a shock of sun-bleached hair, was like cooked lobster.
"My God," said Tetelman, "what are you doing here?"
"I might ask yo u the sam e que stion," Locke rep lied testily.
Bjornstrom waved down the raised rifles of his three companions and strode forward, bearing a placatory smile.
"M r. Locke," the Norwe gian said , extend ing a leather- gloved hand. "It is goo d we meet."
Locke loo ked dow n at the stained glo ve with d isgust, and Bjo rnstrom , flashing a se lf-admo nishing lo ok, pulled it off.
The hand beneath was pristine.
"M y apologies," he said. "W e've been wo rking."
"At what?" Lo cke asked, the acid in his stomach edging its way up into the b ack o f his throat.
Tetelman spat. "Indians," he said.
"Where's the tribe?" Locke said.
Again, Te telman: "Bjornstrom claims he's got rights to this territory . . ."
"The tribe," Locke insisted. "Where are they?"
The Norwegian toyed with his glove.
"Did you buy them out, or what?" Locke asked.
"Not exactly," Bjornstrom replied. His English, like his profile, was impeccable.
"B ring him along," Dancy suggested with so me enthusiasm . "Let him see for himself."
Bjornstrom nodd ed. "W hy not?" he said. "Don't touch anything, Mr. Locke. And tell your carrier to stay where he
is."
Dancy had already about turned, and was heading into the thicket; now Bjornstrom did the same, escorting Locke

across the co mpo und to ward s a corridor hacked thro ugh the heavy fo liage. Lo cke could scarcely keep pace ; his
limbs were more reluctant with every step he took. The ground had been heavily trodden along this track. A litter of
leaves and orchid blo ssoms had been mashed into the sod den soil.
They had dug a pit in a small clearing no m ore tha n a hundred yards fro m the comp ound . It was no t deep , this pit,
nor was it very large. T he mingled sm ells of lime and p etrol ca ncelled out any other scent.
Tetelman, who had reached the clearing ahead of Locke, hung back from approac hing the lip of the earthworks, but
Danc y was not so fastidious. H e strode aro und the far side of the pit and beckoned to Locke to view the contents.
The tribe were putrefying already. They lay where they had been thrown, in a jumble of breasts and buttocks and
faces and limbs, their bodies tinged here and there with purple and black. Flies built helter- skelters in the air above
them.
"An education," Dancy commented.
Locke just looked on as Bjornstrom moved around the othe r side o f the pit to jo in Dancy.
"All of them?" Locke asked.
The N orwegian nodded. "O ne fell swoop," he said, pronouncing each word with unsettling precision.
"Blankets," said Tetelman, naming the murder weapon.
"But so quickly . . ." Locke murmured.
"It's very efficient," said Dancy. "A nd difficult to pro ve. Even if anyb ody ever asks."
"D isease is natural," Bjo rnstrom obse rved. "Yes? L ike the trees."
Locke slowly shook his head, his eyes pricking.
"I hear good things of you," B jornstrom said to him. "P erhap s we can work together."
Locke didn't even attempt to reply. Others of the Norwegian party had laid down their rifles and were now getting
back to wo rk, mo ving the few bo dies still to b e pitched am ongst their fellows from the forlo rn heap beside the pit.
Locke could see a child amongst the tangle, and an old man, whom even no w the burial party were picking up. The
corp se looked jointless as they swung it over the edge of the ho le. It tumb led down the shallo w incline and came to
rest face up, its arms flung up to either side of its head in a gesture of submission, or expulsion. It was the elder of
course, whom Cherrick had faced. His palms were still red. There was a neat bullet-hole in his temple. Disease and
hop elessness had not be en entire ly efficient, apparently.
Locke watched while the next of the bodies was thrown into the mass grave, and a third to follow that. Bjornstrom,
lingering on the far side of the pit, was lighting a cigarette. He caught Locke's eye.
"So it goes," he said.
From behind Locke, Tetelman spoke.
"We thought you wouldn't come back," he said, per- haps attempting to excuse his alliance with Bjornstrom.
"Stumpf is dead," said Locke.
"W ell, even less to divide up," Tetelma n said, approa ching him and laying a hand on his shoulde r. Lo cke didn't
reply; he just stared down amongst the bodies, which were now being covered with lime, only slowly registering the
warmth that was running down his body from the spot where Tetelman had touched him. Disgusted, the man had
remo ved his hand , and was staring at the gro wing blood stain on Locke's shirt.

TW ILIGHT AT T HE TOW ERS
THE PHO TOG RAPH S OF M ironenko which Ballard had been shown in Munich had proved far from instructive.
Only one o r two p ictured the KGB man full face; and of the others most were blurred and grainy, betraying their
furtive origins. Ballard was not overmuch concerned. H e knew from long and occasionally bitter experience that the
eye was all too ready to be deceived; but there were other faculties - the remnants of senses modern life had rendered
obsolete - which he had learned to call into play, enabling him to sniff out the least signs of betrayal. These were the
talents he would use when he met with Mironenko. W ith them, he would root the truth from the man.
The truth? Therein lay the conundrum of course, for in this context wasn't sincerity a movable feast? Sergei
Zakharovich Mironenko had been a Section Leader in Directorate S of the KGB for eleven years, with access to the
most privileged information on the dispersal of Soviet Illegals in the West. In the recent weeks, however, he had
mad e his disenchantmen t with his pre sent ma sters, and his consequent desire to defect, known to the B ritish Security
Service. In return for the elaborate efforts which would have to be made on his behalf he had volunteered to act as an
agent within the KGB for a period of three months, after which time he would be taken into the bosom of democracy
and hidden where his vengeful overlords would never find him. It had fallen to B allard to meet the Russian fac e to
face, in the hope of establishing whether Mironenko's disaffection from his ideology was real or faked. The answer
would not be found on M ironenko's lips, B allard knew, but in some b ehavioural nuance which only instinct would

comprehend.
Time was when Ballard would have found the puzzle fascinating; that his every waking thought would have circled
on the unravelling ahead. But such commitment had belonged to a man co nvinced his actions had some significant
effect upon the world. He was wiser now. The agents of East and West went about their secret works year in, year
out. T hey plo tted; they connived; occasio nally (though rarely) they shed blood . There we re debacles and trade-offs
and minor tactical victories. But in the end things were much the same as ever.
This city, for instance. Ballard had first come to Berlin in April of 1969. He'd been twenty-nine, fresh from years of
intensive training, and ready to live a little. But he had not felt easy here. He found the city charmless; often bleak. It
had taken Odell, his colleague for those first two years, to prove that Berlin was worthy of his affections, and once
Ballard fell he was lost for life. Now he felt more at home in this divided city than he ever had in London. Its unease,
its failed idealism, and - perhaps most acutely of all - its terrible isolation, matched his. He and it, maintaining a
presence in a wasteland of dead ambition.
He found Mironenko at the Germa lde G alerie, an d yes, the photographs ha d lied. The Russian loo ked older than his
forty-six years, and sicker than he'd appeared in those filched portraits. Neither man made any sign of
acknowledgement. They idled through the collection for a full half-hour, with Mironenko showing acute, and
apparently genuine, interest in the work on view. Only when both men were satisfied that they were not being
watched did the Russian quit the building and lead Ballard into the polite suburbs of Dahlem to a mutually agreed
safe house. There, in a small and unheated kitchen, they sat down and talked.
Mironenko's command of English was uncertain, or at least appeared so , though Ballard had the im pression that his
struggles for sense were as much tactical as giammatical. He might well have presented the same facade in the
Russian's situation; it seldom hurt to ap pear less compe tent than o ne was. But despite the difficulties he had in
expressing himself, M ironenko's avowals were unequivocal.
"I am no lon ger a C omm unist," he stated p lainly, "I ha ve not been a party-member - no t here -" he put his fist to his
chest" - for many years."
He fetched an off-white handkerchief from his coat pocket, pulled off one of his gloves, and plucked a bottle of
tablets fro m the fo lds of the handkerchief.
"Fo rgive m e," he said as he sho ok tab lets from the bo ttle. "I hav e pains. In my head; in m y hands."
Ballard waited until he had swallowed the medication before asking him, "Why did you begin to doubt?"
The Russian pocketed the bottle and the handker- chief, his wide face devoid of expression.
"How does a man lose his ... his faith?" he said. "Is it that I saw too much; or too little, perhaps?"
He looked at Ballard's face to see if his hesitant words had made sense. Finding no comprehension there he tried
again.
"I think the man who does not believe he is lost, is lost."
The paradox was elegantly put; Ballard's suspicion as to Mironenko's true command of English was confirmed.
"Are you lost nozi>?" Ballard inquired.
Mironenko d idn't reply. H e was p ulling his other glove off and staring at his hands. T he pills he had sw allowe d did
not seem to be easing the ache he had complained of. He fisted and unfisted his hands like an arthritis sufferer
testing the advance of his condition. Not looking up, he said:
"I was taught tha t the Party had solutions to every- thing. T hat made m e free fro m fear."
"And now?"
"N ow? " he sa id. "N ow I have strange tho ughts. T hey co me to me from nowhere . . ."
"Go on," said Ballard.
Mironenko made a tight smile. "You must know me inside out, yes? Even what I dream?"
"Yes," said Ballard.
Mironenko nodd ed. "It would be the sam e with us," he said. Then, after a pause: "I've tho ught sometimes I would
break open. Do you understand what I say? I would crack, because there is such rage inside me. And that makes me
afraid, B allard. I think they will see how much I hate them." He looked up at his interrogator. "Yo u must be quick,"
he said, "or they will discover me. I try not to think of what they will do." Again, he paused. All trace of the smile,
howeve r humourless, had gone. "The Directora te has Sections eve n I don't have kno wledge o f. Special hospitals,
where nobody can go. They have ways to b reak a man's soul in pieces."
Ballard, ever the pragmatist, wondered if Mironenko's vocabulary wasn't rather high-flown. In the hands of the KGB
he doubted if he would be thinking of his soul's contentmen t. After all, it was the bod y that had the nerve-end ings.
They talked for an hour or more, the conversation moving back and forth between politics and personal
reminiscence, between trivia and confessio nal. A t the end of the m eeting B allard was in no do ubt as to Mironenko 's
antipathy to his masters. He was, as he had said, a man without faith.

The following day Ballard met with Cripps in the restaurant at the Schweizerhof Hotel, and made his verbal report
on Mironenko.
"H e's ready and w aiting. B ut he insists we be q uick ab out making up our mind s."
"I'm sure he does," Cripps said. His glass eye was troubling him today; the chilly air, he explained, made it sluggish.
It moved fractionally more slowly than his real eye, and on occasion Cripps had to nudge it with his fingertip to get
it moving.
"We're not going to rushed into any decision," Cripps said.
"W here's the p roblem? I don 't have any d oubt about his commitment; or his despera tion."
"So you said," Cripps replied. "Would you like something for dessert?"
"Do you doubt my appraisal? Is that what it is?"
"H ave something sweet to finish off, so that I do n't feel an utter re probate."
"Yo u think I'm wrong about him, don't you?" Ballard pressed. When C ripps didn't reply, Ballard leaned across the
table. "You do, don't you?"
"I'm just saying there's reason for caution," Cripps said. "If we finally choose to take him on board the Russians are
going to be very distressed. W e have to be sure the deal's worth the bad weather that comes with it. Things are so
dicey at the mo ment."
"W hen aren't they?" Ballard replied. "T ell me a time when there wasn't some crisis in the offing?" H e settled back in
the chair and tried to read Cripps' face. His glass eye was, if anything, more candid than the real one.
"I'm sick of this damn game," Ballard muttered.
The glass eye roved. "Because of the Russian?"
"M aybe."
"B elieve m e," said Cripps, "I've got go od reason to be careful with this man."
"N ame one."
"T here's nothing verified."
"What have you got on him?" Ballard insisted.
"As I say, rumour," Cripps replied.
"Why wasn't I briefed about it?"
Cripps made a tiny shake of his head. "It's academic now," he said. "You've provided a good report. I just want you
to und erstand that if things don't go the way you think they should it's not beca use your appraisals aren't trusted ."
"I see."
"N o you don't," said Cripps. "Y ou're feeling martyred; and I d on't altoge ther blame yo u."
"So what happens now? I'm supposed to forget I ever met the man?"
"W ouldn't do any harm," said Cripps. "O ut of sight, out of mind."
Clearly Cripps didn't trust Ballard to take his own advice. Though Ballard made several discreet enquiries about the
Mironenko case in the following week it was plain that his usual circle of contacts had been warned to keep their lips
sealed.
As it was, the next news about the case reached B allard via the pages o f the mo rning papers, in an article about a
body found in a house near the station on Kaiser Damm . At the time of reading he had no way of knowing how the
account tied up with Mironenko, but there was enough detail in the story to arouse his interest. For one, he had the
suspicion that the house nam ed in the article had been used by the Service on occa sion; for another, the article
described how two unidentified men had almost been caught in the act of removing the body, further suggesting that
this was no crime of passion.
About noon, he went to see Cripps at his offices in the hope of coaxing him with some explanation, but Cripps was
not available, nor wo uld be, his secretary explained, until furthe r notice; matters a rising had taken him back to
Munich. Ballard left a message that he wished to speak with him when he returned.
As he stepped into the cold air again, he realised that he'd gained an admirer; a thin-faced individual whose hair had
retreated from his brow, leaving a ludicrous forelock at the high-water mark. Ballard knew him in passing from
Cripps' entourage but couldn't put a name to the face. It was swiftly provided.
"Suckling," the man said.
"O f course," said Ballard. "Hello."
"I think maybe we should talk, if you have a mom ent," the man said . His voice was as pinched as his features;
Ballard wanted none of his gossip. He was about to
refuse the offer when Suckling said: "I supp ose yo u heard wha t happ ened to Crip ps."
Ballard sho ok his head. Suckling, delighted to possess this nugget, said again: " W e should talk."

They walked along the Kantstrasse towards the Zoo. The street was busy with lunchtime pedestrians, but Ballard
scarcely noticed them. The story that Suckling unfolded as they walked demanded his full and absolute attention.
It was simply told. Cripps, it appeared, had made an arrangement to meet with Mironenko in order to make his own
assessment of the Russian's integrity. The house in Schoneberg chosen for the meeting had been used on several
previous occasions, and had long been considered one of the safest locations in the city. It had not proved so the
previous evening however. KGB men had apparently followed Mironenko to the house, and then attempted to break
the party up. There was nobody to testify to what had happened subsequently - both the men who had accompanied
Cripps, one of them Ballard's old colleague Odell - were dead; Cripps himself was in a coma.
"And Mironenko?" Ballard inquired.
Suckling shrugged. They took him home to the Motherland, presumably," he said.
Ballard caught a whiff of deceit off the man.
"I'm touched that you're keeping me up to d ate," he said to Suckling. "B ut why?
"You and Odell were friends, weren't you?" came the reply. "With Cripps out of the picture you don't have many of
those left."
"Is that so?"
"N o offence intended ," Suckling said hurriedly. "B ut you've got a rep utation a s a maverick."
"Get to the point," said Ballard.
"There is no point," Suckling protested. "I just thought you ought to know what had happened. I'm putting my neck
on the line here."
"Nice try," said Ballard. He stopped walking. Suckling wandered on a pace or two before turning to find Ballard
grinning at him.
"Who sent you?"
"Nobody sent me," Suckling said.
"Clever to send the court gossip. I almost fell for it. Y ou're very plausible."
There wasn't enough fat on Suckling's face to hide the tic in his cheek.
"W hat do they suspect me of? Do they think I'm conniving with Mironenko, is that it? No, I don't think they're that
stupid."
Suckling shook his head, like a doctor in the presence of some incurable disease. "You like making enemies?" he
said.
"O ccupational hazard. I wo uldn't lose any sleep over it. I don't."
"T here's changes in the air," Suckling said. "I'd ma ke sure you have your answe rs read y."
"Fuck the answers," B allard said co urteously. "I think it's about time I worked out the right que stions."
Send ing Suckling to sound him out smac ked of des- peration. T hey wanted inside info rmatio n; but ab out what?
Could they seriously believe he ha d som e involveme nt with M ironenko; o r worse, with the R GB itself? H e let his
resentment subside ; it was stirring up too m uch m ud, and he needed clear water if he was to find his way free of this
confusion. In one regard, Suckling was perfectly correct: he did have enemies, and with Cripps indisposed he was
vulnerable. In such circumstances there were two courses of action.
He could return to London, and there lie low, or wait around in Berlin to see what manoeuvre they tried next. He
decided on the latter. The charm o f hide-and-seek was rapidly wearing thin.
As he turned North o nto Leibnizstrasse he caught the reflection of a grey-co ated man in a shop wind ow. It was a
glimpse, no more, but he had the feeling that he knew the fellow's face. Had they put a watch-dog onto him, he
wondered? He turned , and caught the man's eye, hold ing it. The suspect seemed emb arrasse d, and looked aw ay. A
performance perhaps; and then again, perhaps not. It mattered little, Ballard thought. Let them watch him all they
liked. H e was guiltless. If indeed there was such a cond ition this side of insanity.
A strange hap piness had found Sergei M ironenko; hap- piness that came without rhyme or reason, an d filled his
heart up to overflowing.
Only the previous day circumstances had seemed unendurable. The aching in his hands and head and spine had
steadily worsened, and was now accomp anied by an itch so de manding he'd had to snip his nails to the flesh to
prevent himself doing serious damage. His body, he had concluded, was in revolt against him. It was that thought
which he had tried to explain to Ballard: that he was divided from himself, and feared that he would soon be torn
apart. But today the fear had gone.
No t so the p ains. T hey were, if anything, worse than they'd been yesterday. His sinews and ligam ents ached as if
they'd been exercised beyond the limits of their design; there were bruises at all his joints, where blood had broken
its banks beneath the skin. But that sense of imminent rebellion had disappeared, to be replaced with a dreamy

peacefulness. And at its heart, such happ iness.
W hen he tried to think back over recent events, to work out what had cued this transformation, his memory played
tricks. He had be en called to meet with Ballard's superior; that he remembered . Whether he had gone to the meeting,
he did not. The night was a blank. Ballard would know how things stood, he reasoned. He had liked and trusted the
Englishman from the beginning, sensing that despite the many differences between them they were more alike than
not. If he let his instinct lead, he would find Ballard, of that he was certain. No doubt the Englishman would be
surprised to see him ; even angered at first. But when he told Ballard of this new-found happ iness sure ly his
trespasses would be forgiven?
Ballard dined late, and drank until later still in The Ring, a small transvestite bar which he had been first taken to by
Od ell almo st two decad es ago . No doubt his guid e's intention had been to prove his sophistication by sh owing his
raw colleague the decadence of Berlin, but Ballard, though he never felt any sexual frisson in the company of The
Ring's clientele, had immediately felt at home here. H is neutrality was resp ected ; no attem pts were made to solicit
him. He was simply left to drink and watch the passing parade of gen ders.
Coming here tonight raised the ghost of Odell, whose name would now be scrubbed from conversation because of
his involvement with the Mironenko affair. Ballard had seen this process at work before. History did not forgive
failure, unless it was so profound as to achieve a kind of grandeur. For the Odells of the world - ambitious men who
had found themselves through little fault of their own in a cul-de-sac from which all retreat was barred - for such
men there would be no fine words spoken nor medals struck. There would only be oblivion.
It made him melancholy to think of this, and he drank heavily to keep his thoughts mellow, but when - at two in the
morning - he steppe d out on to the street his depression was only marginally dulled. T he good b urghers of B erlin
were well a-bed; tomorrow was another working day. Only the sound of traffic from the Kurfurstendamm offered
sign of life somewhere near. He made his way towards it, his thoughts fleecy. Behind him, laughter. A young man glamorously dressed as a starlet - tottered along the pavement arm in arm with his unsmiling escort. Ballard
recognised the transvestite as a regular at the bar; the client, to judge by his sober suit, was an out-of-towner slaking
his thirst for b oys dressed as girls be hind his wife's back. Ballard picked up his p ace. T he young ma n's laughter, its
musicality patently forced, set his teeth on edge. He heard somebod y running nearby; caught a shadow moving out
of the co rner o f his eye. H is watch-d og, most likely. T hough alcohol had blurred his instincts, he felt some anxiety
surface, the root of which he couldn't fix. He walked on. Featherlight tremors ran in his scalp. A few yards on, he
realised that the laughter from the street behind him had ceased. He glanced over his shoulder, half-expecting to see
the bo y and his custom er embracing. But both had disappeared; slipped off down on e of the a lleyways, no doubt, to
conclude their contract in darkness. Somewhere near, a dog had begun to bark wildly. Ballard turned round to look
back the way he'd come, daring the deserted street to disp lay its secrets to him. W hateve r was arousing the buzz in
his head and the itch on his palms, it was no commonplace anxiety. T here w as som ething wrong with the street,
despite its show of innocence; it hid terrors.
The brigh t lights of the K urfurstendam m were no more than three minutes" walk aw ay, but he didn't want to turn his
back on this mystery and take refuge there. Instead he proceeded to walk back the way he'd come, slowly. The dog
had now ceased its alarm, and settled into silence; he had only his footsteps for company. He reached the corner of
the first alleywa y and p eered dow n it. No light burned at window or d oorway. H e cou ld sense no living presence in
the gloom. He crossed over the alley and walked on to the next. A luxurious stench had crept into the air, which
became more lavish yet as he approached the corner. As he breathed it in the buzz in his head deepened to a threat of
thunder. A single light flickered in the throat of the alley, a meagre wash from an upper window. By it, he saw the
body of the out-of-towner, lying sprawled on the ground. He had been so traumatically mutilated it seemed an
attemp t might have be en ma de to turn him inside o ut. From the sp illed innards, that ripe smell rose in all its
com plexity.
Ballard had seen violent death before, and thought himself indifferent to the spectacle. But something here in the
alley threw his calm into disarray. He felt his limbs begin to shake. And then, from beyond the throw of light, the
boy spoke.
"In God 's name . . ." he said. His voice had lost all pretension to femininity; it was a murmur of undisguised terror.
Ballard took a step down the alley. Neither the boy, nor the reason for his whispered prayer, became visible until he
had advanced ten yards. The boy was half-slumped against the wall amongst the refuse. His sequins and taffeta had
been ripped from him; the body was pale and sexless. He seemed not to notice Ballard: his eyes were fixed on the
deepest shadows.
The shaking in B allard's limbs worsened as he followe d the b oy's gaze; it was all he could do to prevent his teeth
from chattering. Nevertheless he continued his advance, not for the boy's sake (heroism had little m erit, he'd always

been taught) but because he was curious, more than curious, eager, to see what manner of man was capable of such
casual violence. To look into the eyes of such ferocity seemed at that moment the most important thing in all the
world.
Now the boy saw him, and muttered a pitiful appeal, but Ballard scarcely heard it. He felt other eyes upon him, and
their touch was like a blow. The din in his head took on a sickening rhythm, like the sound of helicopter rotors. In
mere seconds it mounted to a blinding roar. Ballard pressed his hands to his eyes, and stumbled back against the
wall, dim ly aware that the killer was moving out of hiding (re fuse was overturned ) and making his escape. He felt
something b rush against him, and o pened his eyes in time to glimp se the m an slipp ing awa y dow n the passage way.
He seemed somehow misshapen; his back crooked, his head too large. Ballard loosed a shout after him, but the
berse rker ran on, p ausing only to lo ok down at the bo dy before racing toward s the street.
Ballard heaved himself off the wall and stood upright. The noise in his head was diminishing somewhat; the
attendant giddiness was passing.
Behind him, the boy had begun sobbing. "Did you see?" he said. "Did you see?
"Who was it? Somebody you knew?"
The boy stared at Ballard like a frightened doe, his mascaraed eyes huge.
"Somebody . . .?" he said.
Ballard was about to repeat the question when there came a shriek of brakes, swiftly followed by the sound of the
impact. Leaving the boy to pull his tattered trousseau about him, Ballard went back into the street. Voices were
raised nearby; he hurried to their source. A large car was straddling the pavement, its headlights blazing. The driver
was being helped from his seat, while his passengers - party-goers to jud ge by their dress and drink-flushed faces stood and d ebated furio usly as to how the accid ent had happ ened . One of the wo men was talking abo ut an animal in
the road, but another of the passengers corrected her. The body that lay in the gutter where it had been thrown was
not that of an animal. Ballard had seen little of the killer in the alleyway but he knew instinctively that this was he.
There was no sign of the malformation he thought he'd glimpsed, however; just a man dressed in a suit that had seen
better days, lying face do wn in a p atch of blood. T he po lice had alread y arrived , and an officer shouted to him to
stand away from the body, but Ballard ignored the instruction and went to steal a look at the dead man's face. There
was nothing there of the ferocity he had hoped so much to see. But there was much he recognised nevertheless. The
man was O dell.
He told the officers that he had seen nothing of the accident, which was essentially true, and made his escape from
the scene before events in the adjacent alley were discovered.
It seemed every corner turned on his route back to his rooms brought a fresh question. Chief amongst them: why he
had been lied to about Odell's death? And what psychosis had seized the man that made him capable of the slaughter
Ballard had witnessed? He would not get the answers to these questions from his sometime colleagues, that he knew.
The only man whom he might have beguiled an answer from was Cripps. He remembered the debate they'd had
about Mironenko, and Cripps' talk of reasons for caution when dealing with the Russian. The Glass Eye had known
then that there was something in the wind, though surely even he had not envisaged the scale of the present disaster.
Two highly valued agents murdered; Mironenko missing, presumed dead; he himself - if Suckling was to be
believed - at death's door. And all this begun with Sergei Zakharovich Mironenko, the lost man of Berlin. It seemed
his tragedy was infectious.
Tomorrow, Ballard decided, he would find Suckling and squeeze some answers from him. In the meantime, his head
and his hand s ached, and he wanted sleep. Fatigue comp romised so und judge ment, and if ever he needed that faculty
it was now. But desp ite his exhaustion sleep e luded him for an hour or m ore, and wh en it cam e it was no com fort.
He dream t whispers; and hard upon them, rising as if to drown them out, the roar of the helicopters. Twice he
surfaced from sleep with his head pounding; twice a hunger to understand what the whispers were telling him drove
him to the pillow again. W hen he woke for the third time, the noise between his temples ha d becom e crippling; a
thought-cancelling assault which made him fear for his sanity. Barely able to see the room through the pain, he
crawled from his bed.
"Please . . ."he murmured, as if there were so meb ody to help him from his misery.
A cool voice answered him out of the darkness: "What do you want?"
He didn't question the questione r; mere ly said: "T ake the pain away."
"You can do that for yourself," the voice told him.
He leaned against the wall, nursing his splitting head, tears of agony coming and coming. "I don't know how," he
said.
"Yo ur dreams give you pain," the voice replied, 'so you must forget them. Do you understand? F orget them, and the
pain will go."

He understood the instruction, but not how to realise it. He had no powers of government in sleep. He was the object
of these whispers; not they his. But the voice insisted.
"T he dream means you harm, B ollard . You must bury it. Bury it deep."
"Bury it?"
"M ake an image of it, Ballard. Picture it in detail." He did as he was told. He imagined a burial party, and a box; and
in the box, this dream. He made them dig deep, as the voice instructed him, so that he would never be able to disinter
this hurtful thing again. But even as he imagined the box lowered into the pit he heard its boards creak. The dream
would not lie down. It beat against confinement. The boards began to break. "Quickly," the voice said.
The din of the rotors had risen to a terrifying pitch. Blood had b egun to pour from his nostrils; he tasted salt at the
back of his thro at.
"Finish if!" the vo ice yelled above the tumult. "C over it upl"
Ballard looked into the grave. The box was thrashing from side to side.
"Cover it, damn you!"
He tried to make the burial party obey; tried to will them to pick up their shovels and bury the offending thing alive,
but they would not. Instead they gazed into the grave as he did and watched as the contents of the box fought for
light.
"N o!" the voice dem anded, its fury m ounting. "Y ou must not look!"
The box danced in the hole. The lid splintered.
Briefly, Ballard glimp sed som ething shining up betwe en the boa rds.
"It will killyou!" the voice said, and as if to prove its point the volume of the sound rose beyond the point of
endurance, washing out burial party, box and all in a blaze of pain. Suddenly it seemed that what the voice said was
true; that he was near to death. But it wasn't the dream that was conspiring to kill him, but the sentinel they had
posted between him and it: this skull-sp lintering cacophony.
Only now did he realise that he'd fallen on the floor, prostrate beneath this assault. Reaching out blindly he found the
wall, and hauled himself towards it, the machines still thundering behind his eyes, the blood hot on his face.
He stood up as best he could and began to move towards the bathroom. Behind him the voice, its tantrum controlled,
began its exhortation afresh. It sounded so intimate that he looked round, fully expecting to see the speaker, and he
was no t disappointed. Fo r a few flicke ring mo ments he seemed to be standing in a small, windo wless ro om, its walls
painted a uniform white. The light here was bright and dead, and in the centre of the room stood the face behind the
voice, smiling.
"Y our dream s give you pain," he said. This was the first commandme nt again. "Bury them Ballard, and the p ain will
pass."
Ballard wept like a child; this scrutiny shamed him . He looked awa y from his tutor to bury his tears.
"T rust us," another voice said, close b y. "W e're your friends."
He d idn't trust their fine words. T he very pain they claime d to want to save him from was of their making; it was a
stick to beat him with if the dreams came calling. "We want to help you," one or other of them said.
"N o . . ."he murm ured. "No damn you ... I don 't ... I don't believe . . ."
The room flickered out, and he was in the bedroom again, clinging to the wall like a climber to a cliff-face. Before
they could co me for him with more words, more p ain, he edged his wa y to the bathroom d oor, and stumbled blind ly
towards the shower. There was a moment of panic while he located the taps; and then the water came on at a rush. It
was bitterly cold, but he p ut his head beneath it, while the onslaught of rotor-blades tried to shake the plates of his
skull apart. Icy water trekked down his back, but he let the rain come down on him in a torrent, and by degrees, the
helicopters took their leave. He didn't move, though his body juddered with cold, until the last of them had gone;
then he sat on the edge of the bath, mopping water from his neck and face and body, and eventually, when his legs
felt courageous enough, made his way back into the bedroom.
He lay down on the same crumpled sheets in much the same position as he'd lain in before; yet nothing was the
same. He d idn't know what had cha nged in him, or how. But he lay there without sleep d isturbing his serenity
through the remaining hours of the night, trying to puzzle it out, and a little before dawn he remembered the words
he had muttered in the face of the delusion. Simple words; but oh, their power.
"I don't believe . . ."he said; and the commandments trembled.
It was half an hour before noon when he arrived at the small book exporting firm which served Suckling for cover.
He felt quick-witted, despite the disturbance of the night, and rapidly charmed his way past the receptionist and
entered Suckling's office unannounc ed. W hen Suckling's eyes settled on his visitor he started fro m his desk as if
fired upon.
"G ood morning," said B allard. "I thought it was time we talked."

Suckling's eyes fled to the office-door, which Ballard had left ajar.
"Sorry; is there a draught?" Ballard closed the door gently. "I want to see Cripps," he said.
Suckling waded through the sea of books and manu- scripts that threatened to engulf his desk. "Are you out of your
mind, coming back here?"
Tell them I'm a friend of the family," Ballard offered.
"I can't believe you'd be so stup id."
"Just point me to C ripps, and I'll be away."
Suckling ignored him in favo ur of his tirade. "It's taken two years to establish my credentials here."
Ballard laughed.
"I'm go ing to report this, damn you!"
"I think you should," said Ballard, turning up the volume. "In the meanwhile: where's Cripps?"
Suckling, app arently convinced that he was faced with a lunatic, co ntrolled his apo plexy. " All right," he said. I'll
have somebo dy call o n you; take you to him."
"N ot good enoug h," B allard replied . He crossed to Suckling in two short stride s and took hold of him b y his lapel.
He'd spent at most three hours with Suckling in ten years, but he'd scarcely passed a moment in his presence without
itching to do what he was doing now. Knocking the man's hands away, he pushed Suckling against the book-lined
wall. A stack of volumes, caught by Suckling's heel, toppled.
"O nce more," Ballard said. The old man."
"Take your fucking hands off me," Suckling said, his fury redoubled at being touched.
"Again," said B allard. "Cripps."
"I'll have yo u carp eted fo r this. I'll have you out!"
Ballard leaned towards the reddening face, and smiled.
"I'm out anyway. People have died, remember? London needs a sacrificial lamb, and I think I'm it." Suckling's face
droppe d. "S o I've go t nothing to lose, have I?" T here w as no reply. B allard presse d closer to Suckling, tightening his
grip on the man. ""Have I?"
Suckling's courage failed him. "Cripps is dead," he said.
Ballard didn't release his hold. "You said the same about Odell -" he remarked. At the name, Suckling's eyes
widened. "- And I saw him only last night," B allard said, "out on the tow n."
"You saw Odell?"
"O h yes."
Mention of the dea d man b rought the scene in the alleyway back to mind. The smell of the bod y; the boy's sobs.
There were other faiths, thought Ballard, beyond the one he'd once shared with the creature beneath him. Faiths
whose devotions were made in heat and blood, whose dogmas were dreams. Where better to baptise himself into that
new faith than here, in the b lood of the enemy?
Somewhere, at the very back of his head, he could hear the helicopters, but he wouldn't let them take to the air. He
was strong today; his head, his hands, all strong. When he drew his nails towards Suckling's eyes the blood came
easily. He had a sudden vision of the face beneath the flesh; of Suckling's features stripped to the essence.
"Sir?"
Ballard glanced over his shoulder. The receptionist was standing at the open door.
"O h. I'm sorry," she said, prep aring to w ithdraw. T o judge by her blushes she assum ed this w as a lover's tryst she'd
walked in upon.
"Stay," said Suckling. "M r. Ballard . . . was just leaving."
Ballard released his prey. There would be other opportunities to have Suckling's life.
"I'll see you again," he said.
Suckling drew a handkerchief from his top pocket and pressed it to his face.
"Depend upon it," he replied.
No w they wo uld co me for him, he could have no do ubt of that. He was a ro gue element, and they would strive to
silence him as quickly as possible. The thought did not distress him. Whatever they had tried to make him forget
with their brain-washing was more ambitious than they had anticipated; however deeply they had taught him to bury
it, it was digging its way back to the surfac e. He could n't see it yet, but he knew it was near. More tha n once on his
way back to his roo ms he imagined eye s at his back. M aybe he was still being tailed; but his instincts informed him
otherwise. The presence he felt close-by - so near that it was sometimes at his shoulder - was perhaps simply another
part of him. He felt protected by it, as by a local god.
He had half expected there to be a reception committee awaiting him at his rooms, but there was nobody. Either
Suckling had been obliged to delay his alarm-call, or else the upper echelons were still debating their tactics. He

poc keted those few keepsakes that he wanted to preserve from their calculating eye s, and left the building again
without anyone making a move to stop him.
It felt good to be alive, despite the chill that rendered the grim streets grimmer still. He decided, for no particular
reason, to go to the zoo, which, though he had been visiting the city for two decades, he had never done. As he
walked it occurred to him that he'd never been as free as he was now; that he had shed mastery like an old coat. No
wonder they feared him. They had good reason.
Kantstrasse was busy, but he cut his way throu gh the p edestrians easily, almost as if they sense d a rare certainty in
him and gave him a wide berth. As he approached the entrance to the zoo, however, somebody jostled him. He
looked round to upbraid the fellow, but caught only the back of the man's head as he was submerged in the crowd
heading onto Hardenbergstrasse. Suspecting an attempted theft, he checked his pockets, to find that a scrap of paper
had been slipped into o ne. H e knew better than to examine it on the spot, b ut casua lly glanced round again to see if
he recognise d the courier. The man had alread y slipped away.
He delayed his visit to the zoo and went instead to the Tiergarten, and there - in the wilds of the great park - found a
place to read the message. It was from Mironenko, and it req uested a mee ting to talk o f a matter of considerable
urgency, naming a house in Marienfelde as a venue. Ballard memorised the details, then shredded the note.
It was perfectly possible that the invitation was a trap of course, set either by his own faction or by the opposition.
Perhaps a way to test his allegiance; or to manipulate him into a situation in which he could be easily despatched.
Despite such doubts he had no choice but to go however, in the hope that this blind date was indeed with Mironenko.
W hatever dangers this rendezvous brought, they were not so new. Indeed, given his long-held doubts of the efficacy
of sight, hadn't every date he'd ever made been in some sense blind?
By early evening the damp air was thickening towards a fog, and by the time he stepped off the bus on Hildburghauserstrasse it ha d a go od hold o n the city, lending the chill new pow ers to discom fort.
Ballard went quickly through the quiet streets. He scarcely knew the district at all, but its proximity to the Wall bled
it of what little charm it might once have possessed. Many of the houses were unoccupied; of those that were not
most were sealed o ff against the night and the cold and the lights that glared from the watch-towers. It was only with
the aid of a map that he located the tiny street Mironenko's note had named. No lights burned in the house. Ballard
knocked hard, but there was no answering footstep in the hall. He had anticipated several possible scenarios, but an
absence of response at the house had not been amongst them. He knocked again; and again. It was only then that he
heard sound s from within, and finally the do or was ope ned to him. T he hallway was p ainted grey and brown, and lit
only by a bare bulb. The man silhouetted against this drab interior was not Mironenko.
"Yes?" he said. "What do you want?" His German was spoken w ith a distinct Muscovite inflection.
"I'm looking for a friend of mine," Ballard said.
The man, who was almost as broad as the doorway he stood in, shook his head.
"T here's nobod y here," he said. "Only me."
"I was told -"
"Y ou must have the wro ng house."
No sooner had the doorkeeper made the remark than noise erupted from down the dreary hallway. Furniture was
being overturned ; some bod y had b egun to shout. The Russian loo ked over his shoulder and we nt to slam the do or in
Ballard's face, but Ballard's foot was there to stop him. Taking advantage of the man's divided attention, Ballard put
his shoulder to the door, and pushed. He was in the hallway - indeed he was half-way down it - before the Russian
took a step in pursuit. The sound of demolition had escalated, and was now drowned out by the sound of a man
squealing. Ballard followed the sound past the sovereignty of the lone bulb and into gloom at the back of the house.
He might well have lost his way at that point but that a door was flung open ahead of him.
The roo m be yond had sc arlet floo rboards; the y glistened as if freshly pa inted. A nd no w the decorator appe ared in
person. His torso had been ripped ope n from neck to navel. He pressed his hands to the breached dam , but they were
useless to stem the flood; his bloo d cam e in spurts, and with it, his innard s. He met B allard's gaze, his eye s full to
overflowing with death, but his body had not yet received the instruction to lie down and die; it juddered on in a
pitiful attempt to escape the scene of execution behind him.
The spectacle had brought Ba llard to a halt, and the Russian from the d oor now to ok ho ld of him , and p ulled him
back into the hallway, shouting into his face. The outburst, in panicked Russian, was beyond Ballard, but he needed
no translation of the hands that encircled his throat. The Russian was half his weight again, and had the grip of an
expert strangler, but Ballard felt effortlessly the man's superior. He wrenched the
attacker's hands from his neck, and struck him across the face. It was a fortuitous blow. The Russian fell back
against the staircase, his shouts silenced.
Ballard looked back towards the scarlet room. The dead man had gone, though scraps of flesh had been left on the

threshold.
From within, laughter.
Ballard turned to the Russian.
"W hat in God's name's going on?" he dem anded, but the other man simply stared through the open door. Even as he
spoke, the laughter stopped. A shadow moved across the blood-splattered wall of the interior, and a voice said:
"Ballard?"
There was a roughness there, as if the speaker had been shouting all day and night, but it was the voice of
Mironenko.
"D on't stand out in the cold," he said, "come on in. And bring So lomo nov."
The other man made a bid for the front do or, but Ballard had ho ld of him before he could take two steps.
"There's nothing to be afraid of, Comrade," said Mironenko. "The dog's gone." Despite the reassurance, Solomonov
began to sob as Ballard pressed him towards the open doo r.
Mironenko was right; it was warmer inside. And there no sign of a dog. There was blood in abundance, however.
The man B allard had last seen teetering in the doorway had been dragged back into this abattoir while he and
Solomono v had struggled. The body had been treated with astonishing barbarity. The head had been smashed open;
the innards were a grim litter underfoot. Squatting in the shadowy corner of this terrible room, Mironenko. He had
been mercilessly beaten to judge by the swelling about his head and uppe r torso, but his unshaven face b ore a smile
for his saviour.
"I knew you'd com e," he said. H is gaze fell upon Solomo nov. T hey followed me," he said. "T hey me ant to kill me, I
suppose. Is that what you intended, Comrade?"
Solomonov shook with fear - his eyes flitting from the bruised moon of Mironenko's face to the pieces of gut that lay
everywhere about - finding nowhere a place of refuge.
"What stopped them?" Ballard asked.
Mironenko stood up. Even this slow movement caused Solomono v to flinch.
"Tell M r. Ballard," Mironenko prom pted. "Tell him what happened." Solom onov was too terrified to speak.
"He's KGB , of course," M ironenko explained. " Both trusted men. B ut not trusted enoug h to be warned, po or idiots.
So they were sent to murder me with just a gun and a prayer." He laughed at the thought. "Neither of which were
much use in the circum stances."
"I beg you . . ." Solo mon ov murmured, " . . . let me go. I'll say nothing."
"You'll say what they want you to say, Comrade, the way we all must," Mironenko replied. "Isn't that right, Ballard?
All slaves of our faith?"
Ballard watched M ironenko's face closely; there was a fullness there that could not be entirely explained by the
bruising . The skin alm ost seemed to craw l.
"They have made us forgetful," Mironenko said.
"Of what?" Ballard enquired.
"Of ourselves," came the reply, and with it Mironenko moved from his murky corner and into the light. W hat had
Solomonov and his dead companion done to him? His flesh was a mass of tiny contusions, and there were bloodied
lumps at his neck and temples which Ballard might have taken for bruises but that they palpitated, as if something
nested bene ath the skin. Mironenko m ade no sign of discomfo rt however, as he reached out to S olom onov. At his
touch the failed assassin lo st contro l of his bladde r, but M ironenko's intentions were not murd erous. W ith eerie
tenderness he stroked a tear from Solomonov's cheek. "Go back to them," he advised the trembling man. "Tell them
what you've seen."
Solomonov seemed scarcely to believe his ears, or else suspected - as did Ballard - that this forgiveness was a sham,
and that any attemp t to leave would invite fatal consequences.
But Mironenko pressed his point. "Go on," he said. "Leave us please. Or would you prefer to stay and eat?"
Solomonov took a single, faltering step towards the door. When no blow came he took a second step, and a third,
and now he was o ut of the d oor and away.
"Tell them!" Mironenko shouted after him. The front door slammed.
"Tell them what?" said Ballard.
"T hat I've rem emb ered," M ironenko sa id. "T hat I've found the skin they sto le from me."
For the first time since entering this house, Ballard began to feel queasy. It was not the blood nor the bones
underfoot, but a look in Mironenko's eyes. He'd seen eyes as bright once before. But where?
"Y ou -" he said quietly, "you did this."
"Certainly," Mironenko replied.
"Ho w?" B allard said. There was a familiar thunder climbing from the back of his head. He tried to ignore it, and
press some explanation from the Russian. "How, damn you?"

"W e are the same," M ironenko replied . "I sme ll it in you."
"No ," said Ballard. The clamour was rising.
"The d octrines are just words. It's not what we're taught but what we know that matters. In our marrow; in our
souls."
He had talked of souls once before; of places his masters had built in which a man could be broken apart. At the time
Ballard had thought such talk mere extravagance; now he wasn't so sure. What was the burial party all about, if not
the subjugatio n of some secret part of him ? T he ma rrow-part; the soul-part.
Before Ba llard could find the words to express himself, Mironenko froze, his eyes gleaming more brightly than ever.
"They're outside," he said.
"Who are?"
The Russian shru gged . "Does it matter?" he sa id. "Y our sid e or m ine. Either one will silence us if they can."
That much was true.
"W e must be quick," he said, and headed for the hallway. The front doo r stood ajar. Mironenko w as there in
mom ents. B allard followe d. T ogether they slip ped out on to the street.
The fog had thickened. It idled around the street- lamps, muddying their light, making every doorway a hiding place.
Ballard didn't wait to tempt the pursuers out into the open, but followed Mironenko, who was already well ahead,
swift despite his bulk. Ballard had to pick up his pace to keep the man in sight. One mome nt he was visible, the next
the fog closed around him. The residential property they moved through now gave way to more anonymous
buildings, warehouses perhaps, whose walls stretched up into the murky darkness unbroken by windows. Ballard
called after him to slow his cripp ling pace. T he Russian halted and turned back to Ballard, his o utline wavering in
the besieged light. W as it a trick o f the fog, or had Mironenko's co ndition deteriorated in the m inutes since they'd left
the house? His face seemed to be seeping; the lumps on his neck had swelled further.
"W e don't have to run," B allard said. "They're not following."
"They're always following," Mironenko replied, and as if to give weight to the observation Ballard heard fogdeadened footsteps in a nearby street. "No time to debate," M ironenko murmured, and turning on his heel, he ran. In
seconds, the fog had spirited him away again.
Ballard hesitated another moment. Incautious as it was, he wanted to catch a glimpse of his pursuers so as to know
them for the future. But now, as the soft pad of Mironenko's step diminished into silence, he realised that the other
footsteps had also ceased. Did they know he was waiting for them? He held his breath, but there was neither sound
nor sign of them. The delinquent fog idled on. He seemed to be alone in it. Reluctantly, he gave up waiting and went
after the Russian at a run. A few yards on the road divided. There was no sign of Mironenko in either direction.
Cursing his stupidity in lingering behind, Ballard followed the route which was most heavily shrouded in fog. The
street was short, and ended at a wall lined with spikes, beyond which there was a park of some kind. The fog clung
more tenaciously to this space of damp earth than it did to the street, and Ballard could see no more than four or five
yards across the grass from where he stood. But he knew intuitively that he had chosen the right road; that
Mironenko had scaled this wall and was waiting for him somewhere close by. B ehind him, the fo g kept its counsel.
Either their pursuers had lost him, or their way, or both. He hoisted himself up on to the wall, avoiding the spikes by
a whisp er, and droppe d do wn on the op posite side. T he street had seemed pin-drop quiet, but it clearly wa sn't, for it
was quieter still inside the park. The fog was chillier here, and pressed more insistently upon him as he advanced
across the wet grass. T he wall behind him - his only point of anchorage in this wa steland - became a ghost o f itself,
then faded entirely. Committed now, he walked on a few more steps, not certain that he was even taking a straight
route. Suddenly the fog curtain was drawn aside and he saw a figure waiting for him a few yards ahead. The bruises
now twisted his face so b adly Ballard would no t have known it to be M ironenko, but that his eyes still burned so
brightly. The man d id not wait for B allard, but turne d aga in and loped off into insolidity, leaving the Englishman to
follow, cursing both the chase and the quarry. As he did so, he felt a mov ement close by. His senses w ere use less in
the clammy embrace of fog and night, but he saw with that other eye, heard with that other ear, and he knew he was
not alone. Had Mironenko given up the race and come back to escort him? He spoke the man's name, knowing that
in doing so he made his position apparent to any and all, but equally certain that whoever stalked him already knew
precisely where he stood.
"Speak," he said.
There was no reply out of the fog.
Then; movement. The fog curled upon itself and Ballard glimpsed a form dividing the veils. Mironenko! He called
after the m an aga in, taking several steps thro ugh the murk in pursuit and sudde nly something was stepping o ut to
meet him. H e saw the phantom for a m oment only; long enough to glimpse incand escent eyes and teeth grown so
vast they wrenched the mouth into a permanent grimace. Of those facts - eyes and teeth - he was certain. Of the other
bizarrities - the bristling flesh, the monstrous limbs - he was less sure. Maybe his mind, exhausted with so much

noise and pain, was finally losing its grip on the real world; inventing terrors to frighten him back into ignorance.
"Damn you," he said, defying both the thunder that was coming to blind him again and the phantoms he would be
blinded to. Almost as if to test his defiance, the fog up ahead shimmered and parted and som ething that he might
have taken for human, but that it had its belly to the ground, slunk into view and out. To his right, he heard growls;
to his left, another indeterminate form came and went. He was surrounded, it seemed, by mad men and wild dogs.
And M ironenko; where was he? Part of this assembly, or prey to it? Hearing a half-word spoken behind him, he
swung round to see a figure that was p lausibly tha t of the Russian b acking into the fog. This time he didn't walk in
pursuit, he ran, and his speed was rewarded. The figure reappeared ahead of him, and Ballard stretched to snatch at
the man's jacket. His fingers found purchase, and all at once M ironenko was reeling round, a growl in his throat, and
Ballard was staring into a face that almost made him cry out. His mouth was a raw wound, the teeth vast, the eyes
slits of molten gold; the lumps at his neck had swelled and spread, so that the Russian's head was no longer raised
above his body but part of one undivided energy, head becoming torso without an axis intervening.
"Ballard," the beast smiled.
Its voice clung to coherence only with the greatest difficulty, but Ballard heard the remnants of Mironenko there.
The more he scanned the simmering flesh, the more appalled he became.
"Don't be afraid," Mironenko said.
"What disease is this?"
"The only disease I ever suffered was forgetfulness, and I'm cured of that -" He grimaced as he spoke, as if each
word was shaped in contradiction to the instincts of his throat.
Ballard touched his hand to his head. Despite his revolt against the pain, the noise was rising and rising.
". . . Yo u rememb er too , don't you? Y ou're the same."
"No," Ballard muttered.
Mironenko reached a spine-haired palm to touch him.
"D on't be afraid," he said. "You're no t alone. There are many of us. B rothers and sisters."
"I'm not your brother," Ballard said. The noise was bad, but the face of Mironenko was worse. Revolted, he turned
his back on it, but the Russian only followed him.
"Don't you taste freedom, Ballard? And life. Just a breath away." Ballard walked on, the blood beginning to creep
from his nostrils. H e let it com e. "It only hurts for a while," Mironenko sa id. "T hen the pain goes . . ."
Ballard kept his head down, eyes to the earth.
Mironenko, seeing that he was making little impression, dropped behind.
They won't take you back !" he said. "Y ou've seen too much ."
The roar of helicopters did not entirely blot these words out. Ballard knew there was truth in them. His step faltered,
and through the cacophony he heard M ironenko murmur:
"Lo ok..."
Ahead , the fog had thinned some what, and the park wall was visib le through rags of mist. Behind him, M ironenko 's
voice had d escended to a snarl.
"Lo ok at what you are."
The rotors roared; Ballard's legs felt as though they would fold up beneath him. But he kept up his advance towards
the wall. Within yards of it, Mironenko called after him again, but this time the words had fled altogether. There was
only a low growl. Ballard could not resist looking; just once. He glanced over his shoulder.
Again the fog confounded him, but not entirely. For moments that were both an age and yet too brief, Ballard saw
the thing that had been Mironenko in all its glory, and at the sight the rotors grew to screaming pitch. He clamped his
hand s to his face . As he d id so a shot rang out; then ano ther; then a volley of shots. He fell to the gro und, as much in
weakness as in self-defence, and uncovered his eyes to see several human figures moving in the fog. Though he had
forgotten their pursuers, they had not forgotten him. They had traced him to the park, and stepped into the midst of
this lunacy, and now men and half-men and things not men were lost in the fog, and there was bloody confusion on
every sid e. He saw a gunma n firing at a shado w, only to have a n ally appear from the fog with a bullet in his belly;
saw a thing appear on four legs and flit from sight again on two; saw another run by carrying a human head by the
hair, and laughing from its snouted face.
The turmoil spilled towards him. Fearing for his life, he stood up and staggered back towards the wall. The cries and
shots and sna rls went o n; he expected eithe r bullet o r beast to find him with every step. B ut he rea ched the wall
alive, and attempted to scale it. His co-ordination had deserted him, however. He had no choice but to follow the
wall along its length until he reached the gate.
Behind him the scenes o f unmasking and transform- ation and mistaken identity went on. H is enfeeb led tho ughts
turned briefly to Mironenko. Wo uld he, or any of his tribe, survive this massacre?
"B allard," said a voice in the fog. He could n't see the speaker, although he recognised the voice. He'd heard it in his

delusion, and it had told him lies.
He felt a pin-prick at his neck. The man had come from behind, and was pressing a needle into him. "Sleep," the
voice said. And with the words came ob livion.
At first he couldn't remem ber the man's name. H is mind wand ered like a lost child, altho ugh his interroga tor wo uld
time and again demand his attention, speaking to him as though they were old friends. And there was indeed
something familiar about his errant eye, that went on its way so much more slowly than its companion. At last, the
name came to him.
"You're Cripps," he said.
"Of course I'm Cripps," the man replied. "Is your memory playing tricks? Don't concern yourself. I've given you
some suppressants, to keep you from losing your balance. Not that I think that's very likely. You've fought the good
fight, Ballard, in spite of considerable provocation. When I think of the way Odell snap- ped . . ." He sighed. "Do
you remember last night at all?"
At first his mind's eye was blind. But then the memories began to come. Vague forms mo ving in a fog.
"T he pa rk," he said at last.
"I only just got you ou t. God kno ws how many are d ead."
"The other . . . the Russian . . . ?"
"M ironenko?" Cripps pro mpted. "I don't know. I'm not in charge any longer, you see; I just stepped in to salvage
something if I could. London will need us again, sooner or later. Especially now they know the Russians have a
special corps like us. We'd heard rumours of course; and then, after you'd met with him, began to wonder about
Mironenko . That's why I set up the meeting. And of course when I saw him, face to face, I knew. There's something
in the eyes. Som ething hungry."
"I saw him change -"
"Yes, it's quite a sight, isn't it? The p ower it unleashes. T hat's why we develop ed the pro gramm e, you see, to harness
that power, to have it work for us. But it's difficult to control. It took years of suppression therapy, slowly burying
the desire for transformation, so that what we had left was a man with a beast's faculties. A wolf in sheep's clothing.
We thought we had the problem beaten; that if the belief systems didn't keep you subdued the pain response would.
But we were wro ng." H e stood up and crossed to the windo w. "N ow we have to start again."
"Suckling said you'd been woun ded ."
"N o. M erely demo ted. O rdered back to London."
"B ut you're no t going."
"I will now; now that I've found you." He looked round at Ballard. "You're my vindication, Ballard. You're living
proof that my techniques are viable. You have full knowledge of your condition, yet the therapy holds the leash." He
turned back to the window . Rain lashed the glass. B allard could almost feel it upo n his head, upon his b ack. C ool,
sweet ra in. For a blissful mome nt he see med to be running in it, close to the ground, and the air was full o f the scents
the downpour had released from the pavements.
"M ironenko sa id -"
"Fo rget M ironenko," Cripps told him. "H e's dead . You're the last of the old order, Ballard. And the first of the new."
Downstairs, a bell rang. Cripps peered out of the window at the streets below.
"W ell, well," he said. "A delegation, come to beg us to return. I hope you're flattered." He went to the door. "Stay
here. We needn't show you off tonight. You're weary. Let them wait, eh? Let them sweat." He left the stale room,
closing the door behind him. Ballard heard his footsteps on the stairs. The bell was being rung a second time. He got
up and crossed to the window. The weariness of the late afternoon light matched his weariness; he and his city were
still of one accord, despite the curse that was upon him. Below a man emerged from the back of the car and crossed
to the front door. Even at this acute angle Ballard recognised Suckling.
There were voices in the hallway; and with Suckling's appearance the debate seemed to become more heated.
Ballard went to the door, and listened, but his drug- dulled mind could make little sense of the argument. He prayed
that Cripps would keep to his word, and not allow them to peer at him. He didn't want to be a beast like Mironenko.
It wasn't freedom, was it, to be so terrible? It was merely a different kind of tyranny. But then he didn't want to be
the first of Cripps' heroic new order either. H e belo nged to nob ody, he realised; not even himself. H e was hope lessly
lost. And yet hadn't M ironenko sa id at that first meeting tha t the man who did no t believe himself lost, was lost?
Perhaps better that - better to exist in the twilight between one state
and another, to prosper as best he could by doubt and ambiguity - than to suffer the certainties of the tower. The
debate below was gaining in momentum. Ballard opened the door so as to hear better. It was Suckling's voice that
met him . The tone was waspish, but no less threatening for that.
"It's over . . ." he was telling Cripps ". . . don't you understand plain English?" Cripps mad e an attempt to protest, but

Suckling cut him short. "Either you come in a gentlemanly fashion o r Gid eon and S heppard carry you out. W hich is
it to be?"
"W hat is this?" Cripps de manded . "You're no bod y, Suckling. Yo u're com ic relief."
"T hat was yesterday," the man replied . "T here've b een so me changes made. E very dog has his day, isn't that right?
Yo u shou ld know that better than anybo dy. I'd get a coat if I we re you. It's raining."
There wa s a short silence, then Cripps said: "All right. I'll com e."
"G ood man," said Suckling sweetly. "Gid eon, go check up stairs."
"I'm alone," said Cripps.
"I believe yo u," said Suckling. Then to Gideon, "Do it anyway."
Ballard heard somebo dy move across the hallway, and then a sudden flurry of movement. Cripps was either making
an escape-bid or attacking Suckling, one of the two. Suckling shouted out; there was a scuffle. Then, cutting through
the confusion, a single shot.
Cripps cried out, then came the sound of him falling.
No w Suc kling's voice, thick with fury. "Stupid," he said. "Stupid."
Cripps groaned something which Ballard didn't catch.
Had he asked to be dispatched, perhaps, for Suckling
told him : "No. You're go ing back to L ondon. Sheppard , stop him bleeding. Gideon; upstairs."
Baliard backed away from the head of the stairs as Gideon began his ascent. He felt sluggish and inept. There was no
way out of this trap . They would co rner him and exterminate him . He w as a beast; a mad dog in a maze. If he'd only
killed Suckling when he'd had the streng th to do so. B ut then what good w ould that have done? The world was full
of men like Suckling, men biding their time until they could show their true colours; vile, soft, secret men. And
suddenly the beast seemed to move in Baliard, and he thought of the park and the fog and the smile on the face of
Mironenko , and he felt a surge of grief for something he'd never had: the life of a monster.
Gideon was almost at the top of the stairs. Though it could only delay the inevitable by moments, Baliard slipped
along the landing and opened the first door he found. It was the bathroom. There was a bo lt on the door, which he
slipped into place.
The sound o f running water filled the room. A piece of guttering had broken, and was delivering a torrent of rainwater onto the window-sill. The sound, and the chill of the bathroom, brought the night of delusions back. He
remembered the pain and bloo d; remembered the shower - water beating on his skull, cleansing him of the taming
pain. At the thought, four words came to his lips unbidden.
"I do not believe ."
He had been heard.
"T here's someb ody up here," G ideon called . The man app roached the do or, and beat on it. "O pen up!"
Baliard heard him quite clearly, but didn't reply. His throat was burning, and the roar of rotors was growing louder
again. He put his back to the door and despaired.
Suckling was up the stairs and at the doo r in seco nds. " W ho's in there? " he dem ande d to know. "A nswer me! W ho 's
in there?" Getting no response, he ordered that Cripps be brought upstairs. There was more commotion as the order
was obeyed.
"For the last time -" Suckling said.
The pressure was building in B allard's skull. This tim e it seemed the din had lethal intentions; his eyes ac hed, as if
abo ut to be blown from their soc kets. H e caught sight of something in the mirror abo ve the sink; something with
gleaming eyes, and again, the words came - "I d o not believe" - but this time his throat, hot with other business,
could barely pronounce them. "Ballard," said Suckling. There was triumph in the word. "My G od, we've got Ballard
as well. T his is our lucky da y."
No, thought the man in the mirror. There was nobody of that name here. Nobody of any name at all, in fact, for
weren't names the first act of faith, the first board in the box you buried freedom in? T he thing he was becoming
would not be named; nor bo xed; nor buried. Never again.
For a mom ent he lost sight of the bathroom, and found himself hovering above the grave they had made him dig, and
in the depths the box danced as its contents fought its premature burial. He could hear the wood splintering - or was
it the sound of the door being broken do wn?
The box-lid flew o ff. A rain of nails fell on the head s of the burial party. The noise in his head, as if kno wing that its
torments had proved fruitless, suddenly fled, and with it the delusion. He was back in the bathroom, facing the open
door. The m en who stared through at him had the faces of fools. Slack, and stupefied with shock - seeing the way he
was wrought. Seeing the snout of him, the hair of him, the golden eye and the yellow tooth of him. Their horror
elated him.
"Kill it!" said Suckling, and pushed Gideon into the breach. The man already had his gun from his pocket and was

levelling it, but his trigger-finger was too slo w. The be ast snatched his hand and p ulped the flesh around the steel.
Gideon scream ed, and stum bled awa y down the stairs, ignoring Suckling's shouts.
As the beast raised his hand to sniff the blood on his p alm there was a flash of fire, and he felt the blow to his
shoulder. Sheppard had no chance to fire a second shot however before his prey was through the door and upon him.
Forsaking his gun, he made a futile bid for the stairs, but the beast's hand unsealed the b ack of his head in one easy
stroke. The gunman toppled forward, the narro w landing filling with the smell of him. Forgetting his other enem ies,
the beast fell upon the offal and ate.
Som ebo dy said: "Ballard."
The beast swallowed down the dead m an's eyes in one gulp, like prime o ysters.
Again, those syllables. " "B allard." He would have gone on with his me al, but that the sound of weep ing pricked his
ears. Dead to himself he was, but not to grief. He dropp ed the meat from his fingers and looked back along the
landing.
The man who was crying only wept from one eye; the other gazed on, oddly untouched. But the pain in the living
eye was profound indeed. It was despair, the beast knew; such suffering was too close to him for the sweetness of
transformation to have erased it entirely. The weeping man was locked in the arms of another man, who had his gun
placed against the side of his prisoner's head.
"If you make another move," the captor said, "I'll blow his head off. Do you understand me?"
The beast wiped his mouth.
"T ell him, C ripps! He's your baby. M ake him understand."
The one-eyed man tried to speak, but words defeated him. Blood from the wound in his abdomen seeped between
his fingers.
"N either of you need die," the c aptor said. T he be ast didn't like the music of his vo ice; it was shrill and d eceitful.
"Lo ndo n wou ld much prefer to have yo u alive. So why d on't you tell him , Cripp s? T ell him I m ean him no harm."
The weeping man nodded.
"Ballard . . ."he murmured. His voice was softer than the other. The beast listened.
"Tell me, Ballard -" he said,"- how does it feel?"
The beast couldn't quite make sense of the question.
"Please tell me. Fo r curiosity's sake -"
"D amn you -" sa id Suckling, pressing the gun into Cripps' flesh. "This isn't a debating society."
"Is it good?" Cripps asked, ignoring both man and gun.
"Shut up!"
"Answer me, B allard. How do es it feel?
As he stared into Cripps' despairing eyes the meaning o f the sounds he 'd uttered came clear, the words falling into
place like the pieces of a mosaic. "Is it good?" the man was asking.
Ballard heard laughter in his throa t, and found the syllables there to reply.
"Y es," he told the weep ing man. "Y es. It's good."
He had not finished his reply before Cripps' hand sped to snatch at Suckling's. Whether he intended suicide or escape
nob ody w ould ever know. The trigger-finger twitched, and a bullet flew up through Crip ps' head and sp read his
despair across the ceiling. Suckling threw the body off, and went to level the gun, but the beast was already upon
him.
Had he been m ore of a man, Ballard might have thought to make S uckling suffer, but he had no such perverse
ambition. His only thought was to render the enemy extinct as efficiently as possible. Two sharp and lethal blows
did it. Once the man was dispatched, Ballard crossed over to where Cripps was lying. His glass eye had escaped
destruction. It gazed on fixedly, untouched by the holocaust all around them. Unseating it from the maimed head,
Ballard put in his pocket; then he went out into the rain.
It was dusk. H e did not kno w which district o f Berlin he'd be en brought to, but his im pulses, freed of reason, led him
via the back streets and shadows to a wasteland on the outskirts of the city, in the middle of which stood a solitary
ruin. It was anybody's guess as to what the building might once have been (an abbatoir? an opera-house?) but by
some freak of fate it had escaped demolition, though every other building had been levelled for several hundred
yards in each direction. As he made his way across the weed-clogged rubble the wind changed direction by a few
degrees and carried the scent of his tribe to him. There were many there, together in the shelter of the ruin. Some
leaned their backs against the wall and shared a cigarette; some were perfect wolves, and haunted the darkness like
ghosts with golden eyes; yet others might have passed for hum an entirely, but for their trails.
Though he feared that names would be forbidden am ongst this clan, he asked two lovers who were rutting in the
shelter of the wall if they knew of a man called Mironenko. The bitch had a smooth and hairless back, and a dozen
full teats hanging from her belly.

"Listen," she said.
Ballard listened, and heard someb ody talking in a corner of the ruin. The voice ebb ed and flowed. He followed the
sound across the roofless interior to where a wolf was standing, surrounded by an attentive audience, an open book
in its front paws. At Ballard's approach one or two of the audience turned their luminous eyes up to him. The reader
halted.
"Ssh !" said one, " the Co mrad e is read ing to us."
It was Mironenko who spoke. B allard slipped into the ring of listeners beside him, as the reader took up the story
afresh.
"And G od b lessed them, and G od sa id unto them, B e fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth . . ."
Ballard had heard the words before, but tonight they were new.
". . . and subd ue it: and have d ominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air . . ."
He looked aro und the circle of listeners as the words described their familiar pattern.
". . . and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.""
Somewhere near, a beast was crying.

THE BOOK OF BLOOD (A POSTSCRIPT): ON JERUSALEM STREET
W YBU RD LO OKE D AT the book, and the book looked back. Everything he'd ever been told about the boy was
true.
"How did you get in?" McN eal wanted to know. There was neither anger nor trepidation in his voice; only casual
curiosity.
"Over the wall," Wyburd told him.
The book nodded. "Come to see if the rumours were true?"
"So mething like that."
Amongst connoisseurs of the bizarre, McNeal's story was told in reverential whispers. How the boy had passed
himself off as a me dium, inventing stories o n behalf of the departed for his own pro fit; and ho w the dead had fina lly
tired of his mockery, and broken into the living world to exact an immaculate revenge. They had written upon him;
tattooe d their true testam ents upon his skin so that he would never again take their grief in vain. T hey had turned his
bod y into a living book, a book o f blood, eve ry inch of which was minutely engraved with their histories.
W yburd was no t a cred ulous m an. H e had never quite believed the story - until now. B ut here was living proof of its
veracity, standing before him. There was no p art of McNeal's exposed skin which was not itching with tiny words.
Though it was four years and more since the ghosts had come for him, the flesh still looked tender, as though the
wounds would never entirely heal.
"H ave you seen enough?" the b oy asked. "There's mo re. He's covered fro m hea d to foot. Sometimes he wonders if
they didn't write on the inside as well." He sighed. "Do you want a drink?"
W yburd nodded . Maybe a throatful of spirits would stop his hands from trembling.
McNeal poured himself a glass of vodka, took a slug from it, then poured a second glass for his guest. As he did so,
W yburd saw that the boy's nape was as densely inscribed as his face and hands, the writing creeping up into his hair.
Not even his scalp had escaped the authors" attentions, it seemed.
"W hy do you talk about yourself in the third person?" he asked M cNeal, as the boy returned with the glass. "Like
you weren't here . . .?"
The boy?" M cNeal said. "He isn't here. H e hasn't been here in a long time."
He sat down; drank. Wyburd began to feel more than a little uneasy. Was the boy simply mad, or playing some
damn-fool game?
The boy swallowed another mouthful of vodka, then asked, matter of factly: "What's it worth to you?"
Wyburd frowned. "What's what worth?"
"His skin," the boy prompted. "That's what you came for, isn't it?"
Wyburd emptied his glass with two swallows, making no reply. McNeal shrugged.
"Everyone has the right to silence," he said. "Except for the boy of course. No silence for him." He looked down at
his hand , turning it ov er to ap praise the writing on his p alm. "The stories go on, night and day. Nev er stop . They tell
themselves, you see. T hey bleed an d bleed. Y ou ca n neve r hush the m; never heal them."
He is mad, Wyburd thought, and somehow the realisation made what he was about to do easier. Better to kill a sick
animal than a healthy one.

"There's a road, you know . . ." the boy was saying. He wasn't even looking at his executioner. "A road the dead go
down. He saw it. Dark, strange road, full of people. Not a day gone by when he hasn't . . . hasn't wanted to go back
there."
"Back?" said Wyburd, happy to keep the boy talking. His hand went to his jacket pocket; to the knife. It comforted
him in the prese nce o f this lunacy.
"N othing's enough," M cNeal said. "Not love . Not music. N othing."
Clasp ing the knife, W yburd drew it from his p ocket.
The boy's eyes found the blade, and warmed to the sight.
"You never told him how much it was worth," he said.
"Two hundred thousand," Wyburd replied.
"Anyone he knows?"
The assassin shoo k his head. "A n exile," he rep lied. "In Rio. A collector."
"Of skins?"
"O f skins."
The bo y put down his glass. He murmured som ething Wyburd didn't catch. Then, very quietly, he said: "Be quick,
and do it."
He juddered a little as the knife found his heart, but Wyburd was efficient. The moment had com e and gone before
the boy even knew it was happening, much less felt it. Then it was all over, for him at least. For Wyburd the real
labour was o nly just beginning. It took him two hours to complete the flaying. W hen he was finished - the skin
folded in fresh linen, and locked in the su itcase he 'd brought for that very p urpo se - he wa s weary.
Tomorrow he would fly to Rio, he thought as he left the house, and claim the rest of his payment. Then, Florida.
He spent the evening in the small apartment he'd rented for the tedious weeks of surveillance and planning which
had preceded this afternoon's work. H e was glad to be leaving. H e had been lonely he re, and anxious with
anticipation. Now the job was done, and he could put the time behind him.
He slept well, lulled to sleep by the imagined scent of orange groves.
It was no t fruit he sme lt when he woke, however, but something savo ury. The room w as in darkness. He reached to
his right, and fumbled for the lamp-switch, but it failed to come on.
Now he heard a heavy slopping sound from across the room. He sat up in bed, narrowing his eyes against the dark,
but could see nothing. Swinging his legs over the edge of the bed, he went to stand up.
His first thought was that he'd left the bathroom taps on, and had flooded the apartment. He was knee-deep in warm
water. Confounded, he waded towards the door and reached for the main light-switch, flipping it on. It was not water
he was standing in. Too cloying, too precious; too red.
He mad e a cry o f disgust, and turne d to ha ul open the d oor, but it was lo cked , and the re was no key. He b eat a
panicked fusillade upon the solid wood, and yelled for help. His appeals went unanswered.
Now he turned back into the room, the hot tide eddying about his thighs, and sought out the fountain- head.
The suitcase. It sat where he had left it on the bureau, and bled copiously from every seam; and from the locks; and
from around the hinges - as if a hundred atrocities were being co mmitted within its confines, and it co uld no t contain
the flood these acts had unleashed.
He watched the blood p ouring out in steaming abun- dance. In the scant seconds since he'd stepped from the bed the
pool had deepened by several inches, and still the deluge came.
He tried the bathroom door, but that too was locked and keyless. He tried the windows, but the shutters were
immovable. The bloo d had reached his waist. Much of the furniture was floating. Knowing he was lost unless he
attempted some direct action, he pressed through the flood towards the case, and put his hands upon the lid in the
hope that he might yet stem the flow. It was a lost cause. At his touch the b lood see med to come with fresh
eagerness, threatening to burst the seams.
The stories go on, the bo y had said. T hey bleed and bleed . And no w he seemed to hear them in his head, those
stories. D ozens of vo ices, each telling so me tragic tale. T he floo d bo re him up tow ards the ceiling. He p add led to
keep his chin above the frothy tide, but in minutes there was barely an inch of air left at the top of the room. As even
that margin narrowed, he added his own voice to the cacophony, begging for the nightmare to stop. But the other
voice s drowned him out with their sto ries, and as he kissed the ceiling his b reath ra n out.
The dead have highways. They run, unerring lines of ghost-trains, of dream-carriages, across the wasteland behind
our lives, bearing an e ndless traffic of departed so uls. Th ey have sign-po sts, these highways, and bridges and laybys. They have turnpikes and intersections.
It was at o ne of the se intersections that Leo n W yburd caugh t sight of the m an in the red suit. The throng presse d him
forward, and it was only when he came closer that he realised his error. The man was not wearing a suit. He was not

even wearing his skin. It was not the McNeal boy however; he had gone on from this point long since. It was another
flayed man entirely. Leon fell in beside the man as he walked, as they talked together. The flayed man told him how
he had come to this condition; of his brother-in-law's conspiracies, and the ingratitude of his daughter. Leon in turn
told of his last mome nts.
It was a great relief to tell the story. Not because he wanted to be remembe red, b ut because the telling relieved him
of the tale. It no longer belonged to him, that life, that death. He had better business, as d id they all. Roads to travel;
splendours to drink down. He felt the landscape widen. Felt the air brightening.
W hat the boy had said was true. The dead have highways.
Only the living are lost.

